* Post 
 * Telephones 
 * Newspapers 
 * Telegrams 
 * Posters 
 * Propaganda 
 * Communication 
 Just two people out of every 100 had a telephone at the start of the war. 
 Phones were known as 'Candlestick telephones and they sat upright on a desk with a separate mouth piece and ear piece. 
 The mouthpiece at the top had to be held quite close for speaking. The earpiece had to be lifted off the hook and held close to hear what was being said. 
 'Hello, operator speaking'
 Today, we use telephone numbers but during the war most telephones had no number dials. 
 Callers had to know the name of the exchange and a short number to reach another person. 
 Unhooking the earpiece meant the caller was connected to an operator at the telephone exchange. The operator would ask for the details of the exchange and number to be dialled. They then connected the call. 
 For example, to ring Buckingham Palace, a caller would ask for Victoria 6913. 
 Making a telephone call took time and the quality of the line was not always good. People had to speak slowly and clearly, and it was often hard to hear what the other person was saying.
 'How may I connect you?'
 Calls to other countries could be made because underwater cables had been laid by boats many years earlier. 
 "
 If I want to send a message I employ a boy to take it"
 William Preece, the man in charge of Britain's new telephone system, said he thought it would never catch on. He said he had one in his office, but it was just a substitute for servants. 
 When the war started, the British government sent a ship to cut all but one of the underwater cables Germany used. 
 This meant the Germans could no longer make telephone calls to other countries and had to use a different way of sending messages. 
 The other ways were not secure and Britain could spy on the messages Germany sent out.
 The Post Office engineering department designed special telephone equipment for use in the trenches. This made communications much easier between army officers and the War Office in London.
 Teachers' notes
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas looking at communication 100 years ago.
