* Who was Jack? 
 * Jack's childhood 
 * Joining the Navy 
 * Battle of Jutland 
 * Remembering Jack 
 At Easter 1916, Jack was sent to Rosyth in Scotland. On 2 May he joined the crew of HMS Chester, a new 'light cruiser' - a bit smaller than a battleship - with about 400 men. 
 Jack had done well in training. He had the rank of 'Boy Seaman First Class'. Like all soldiers and sailors, he had his own number - J/42563. He wrote letters home to his mother. 
 The British were waiting for the German ships to fight in the North Sea. When would they come? 
 On 30 May 1916 the Royal Navy's fleet - a group of battleships, cruisers and destroyers (small fast warship, firing guns and torpedoes), put to sea. They left port from bases in Scotland and the Orkney Islands with thousands of sailors on board. 
 On 31 May, the German ships also steamed out into the North Sea. This was before radar or satellite navigation, so neither fleet knew where the other was until British sailors spotted distant ships at 2 in the afternoon. It was the German fleet, off Jutland in Denmark.
 The guns opened fire. The battle of Jutland had begun.
 What happened to Jack?
 The ships kept firing their guns for hours. At 5.30pm Jack's ship came under fire from four German ships. 
 Big missiles (called 'shells') crashed from the German guns into HMS Chester. Jack's ship was hit, and all his gun-crew were killed or badly wounded. Bodies lay all around. 
 Only Jack was left standing, bleeding from wounds. Although in pain and with shells still hitting the ship, he stayed by his gun waiting for orders.
 When rescuers found him, he was alive, but terribly wounded by flying splinters of metal. 
 The battle went on until it was dark. The British lost more ships and more men (more than 6,000 were killed), but the Germans never risked another sea battle. 
 HMS Chester, though damaged, got home and Jack was taken to hospital in Grimsby. The doctors were impressed by his courage. They sent for his mother, but before she arrived by train, Jack died on 2 June.
 Related stories
 Teachers' notes
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas looking at the life and death of Jack Cornwell
