Which tiny 1960s car was proud to be British, was loved by families, and had a name to match its miniature size? 
 Probably not the one you're thinking of.
 While the Mini became a motoring icon, another little car was once the rival to its crown - the Hillman Imp.
 When it first rolled off the production line in May 1963 the Imp was intended to revive the car industry in Scotland. Instead it was a commercial failure and left one town on the brink of disaster.
 The Hillman Imp was conceived by the British car firm Rootes. The Suez crisis in 1956 had led to petrol shortages and manufacturers needed small vehicles with better fuel economy. 
 Rootes' car was designed to be speedier and more spacious than the Mini, with a host of innovative features. It had a rear-mounted aluminium engine, an automatic choke, fold down back seats, and an opening rear window to squeeze in more luggage.
 Rootes wanted to build the Imp at their plant at Ryton on Dunsmore near Coventry, but were blocked from expansion by the Board of Trade. The south of England was the heartland of UK car manufacture, but the Board had marked other areas for industrial development. 
 Hillman Imp statistics
* Production dates: 1963-1976
 * Number produced: 440,000
 * Engine: Aluminium rear-mounted 875cc 
 * Transmission: 4-speed manual gearbox
 * Top speed: 75mph
 * Size: Length 3.6m, Width 1.5m, Height 1.4m 
 * Wheelbase: 2082mm 
 * Weight: 725kg
 Negotiations followed with Harold Macmillan's Conservative government, and Linwood in Scotland was chosen as the factory site. The village was ten miles west of Glasgow with access to road, rail, river and air links. 
 The government contributed £10m of the £23m building costs. The aim was to bring jobs to the unemployed and replace Scotland's declining coal mining and shipbuilding industries.
 The new factory transformed the area. Rootes set out to employ 5,000 people and produce 150,000 cars each year. The council built 1,800 homes for workers and their families. New schools, churches and shops followed. 
 People flocked from Glasgow's cramped tenement housing, and further afield, to the growing community. They built a new life around the Imp. In just a few years Linwood's population had ballooned from 2,500 to 15,000 residents. 
 The Duke of Edinburgh opened the factory on 2nd May 1963. The first Imp produced is now on display at Glasgow's Riverside Museum. 
 "It was a lovely thing, it had a beautiful design," says curator Alex Robertson. "The Imp symbolised Scottish skill and innovation."
 "Scotland had been at the forefront of motoring in the late 19th Century, there were around 70 independent manufacturers. We had the three 'A's, Argyll, Arrol Johnson, and Albion. Their cars were handmade beautiful beasts."
 But by the 1950s nearly 90 per cent of Britain's vehicles were mass-produced by just five manufacturers - Rootes, BMC, Ford, Standard-Triumph and Vauxhall. 
 The Imp was the first car built in Scotland in 35 years, although its introduction was blighted by a series of problems. 
 "It launched too soon," says Robertson. "There wasn't time to iron out the faults. It was rushed out to compete with the Mini and other small cars. It wasn't tested for long enough and build quality suffered.
 	"
 The Imp was more than just a car, it was a political pawn"
 "The other argument is that the Imp failed because Rootes was too late in producing it at all. The Mini launched four years earlier and cornered the market."
 The Imp's components were still sourced from Rootes' Coventry plant and were often delayed. The car's early technical issues earned it a reputation for poor reliability. 
 Workers recruited from the Clyde shipyards were also not experienced in car manufacture, with many learning on the job. 
 Linwood was hit by a series of industrial disputes, with 31 stoppages in 1964 alone. The factory was operating at a third of capacity, producing just 50,000 vehicles a year. 
 Despite a loyal following in Scotland, sales never met expectations. As Linwood's employment roll grew to around 9000 workers the Imp's brief popularity was fading. Meanwhile the Mini was becoming a 1960s style icon and sales flourished.
 In 1967 Rootes was bought over by America's Chrysler Corporation. New models were introduced, the Hillman Hunter and Hillman Avenger, but the factory continued to lose money. 
 Keeping the Imp dream alive
 The Hillman Imp is still a popular car with enthusiasts, and hundreds of members of the Imp Club gather for events each year. 
 Archivist Kimberley Starkie runs the IMPart project to record the memories of Rootes' workers. She also drives a Hillman Imp California, which she began rebuilding at the age of 14. 
 "The Imp is special to me," she says. "I've grown up with them. My dad bought his first Imp when I was four and my family all have them. 
 "Its popularity endured because it's relatively cheap to run, easy to modify and fun to drive. The club has been essential in helping these little cars survive by sharing knowledge and spare parts."
 Imp production ended in 1976, but the other models remained on sale. Chrysler was bought by Peugeot Citroën in 1978, but just three years later closed Linwood to move production to Coventry. 
 Thousands were immediately left jobless. Workers built a coffin to be the final object to roll off the production line. Local Labour MP Norman Buchan told Parliament it was the "death of a town".
 From 1963 to 1976 more than 440,000 Hillman imps were built at Linwood. Today the factory site is a retail and business park with shops, offices, restaurants and car showrooms. Linwood has never fully recovered from the closure.
 "The debacle was the end of Scottish motoring," says Robertson. "The Imp was more than just a car, it was a political pawn. Rootes was under so much pressure to build in Scotland. 
 "Scots went out and bought it despite its flaws. They were loyal to the brand and considered it their own. 
 "The Imp is one of the museum's star attractions with local people. There's a big dent in the boot where some have tried to sit on it to get a photo taken. They don't realise it is a historic object because they feel a real connection to the car."
