More history from the BBC
* Dazzling designs 
 * Teenage soldiers 
 * The song that kept Britain singing 
 * Oh What a Lovely War! 
 Elizabeth Woodville's marriage to Edward IV produced ten babies in 14 years, but how dangerous was it to have a royal baby in the 15th Century? Historian Dr. Jeremy Goldberg assesses what childbirth would have been like for the White Queen.
 Childbirth in the later Middle Ages was a time of celebration but also one of fear. Maternal mortality was ever-present, even for women carrying a royal baby.
 Anne de Mortimer, the grandmother of Edward IV, died shortly after giving birth to her second child. There was also great fear of "perinatal mortality" where babies were stillborn or died in the first week of life. 
 Even higher status women like Elizabeth Woodville, who had the best care of the time, knew it was unlikely that all her children would survive. Her fifth child by Edward, Margaret of York, survived for only eight months, while their eighth child George died aged two.
 Maternal mortality was more of a possibility, especially when high status young women were married and became pregnant before achieving physical maturity.
 Here Elizabeth had the advantage. She had her first child by her first husband Sir Thomas Grey when she was 20 and had two children by the time she married King Edward IV in 1464. 
 In the 15th century, the birthing chamber was designed to recreate the womb. Elizabeth's chamber for her first child by Edward IV was very grand as befit her station and, according to 16th century antiquary John Leland, would have been hung with blue cloth of Arras decorated with gold fleurs-de-lis, 
 History of childbirth
 Women in labour were traditionally attended by other women, before the 18th Century. These might be friends and relatives with experience - or women who made it their profession. 
 By the end of the 18th Century, many women of all social classes would engage a medical practitioner - virtually all were men. Male-midwifery went in tandem with the development of hospitals as a place for women to give birth.
 Maternal mortality remained relatively high until the mid-1930s but then declined steeply with the availability of treatments such as anti-bacterial drugs for conditions including puerperal fever.
 The child was born into a warm, darkened, enclosed space. Hangings helped contain the warmth, but their principle function was to display the wealth and status of the mother and the family into which she had married. 
 Special clothing was designed as much to display her queenly rank as to accommodate her pregnant body. A fire would heat the room at all times. 
 The queen, like all women of sufficient status and means that could afford to follow the ritual practice, would be confined a month prior to the birth and so remain for some 40 days after her child was born. 
 But whatever their social standing, childbirth in the later Middle Ages was a women-only affair. Mothers gave birth in their own homes and male medics only ever attended in an emergency. Childbirth was an exclusively female ceremony managed by an experienced midwife and female kin and friends, known as 'gossips' . 
 However, the birth of Elizabeth Woodville's first son by Edward IV did not follow this well-ordered plan. The Earl of Warwick's rebellion had forced the king to flee to the Continent and Elizabeth, then eight months pregnant, to seek sanctuary in the precinct of Westminster Abbey. 
 The common council records show that Elizabeth sent word to the mayor of London that the city should not resist Warwick lest his men came to the abbey 'to despoil and kill her'. 
 Elizabeth would have only been able to call upon aristocratic female supporters of the Yorkist dynasty who had taken refuge with her. She may well have been lent the girdle from the image of the Virgin in the Abbey to protect her in childbirth and make the delivery easier. 
 Elizabeth, we must assume, would also have been attended by a midwife who would oversee the delivery, tie the umbilical cord, wash the child and anoint it with salt and honey, and wrap the child. She would rub the baby's gums with honey to encourage the infant to suckle.
 After the birth the midwife would have given the mother a caudle, a wine-based strengthening drink. In the chapel a "Te Deum", a hymn of praise, would be sung.
 An unbaptised child would be excluded from heaven, so babies were baptised within a day or so of delivery such was the fear of the child dying. Godparents would have to be chosen in advance and hurriedly summoned. The mother was absent, as she was confined, so the child would be carried by their nurse. 
 Gifts were given and feasting might follow. The child would be displayed in its cradle. Royal princes had their own ceremonial cradles constructed specifically for this purpose and, according to John Leland, Elizabeth's birthing chamber was equipped with both a "litille" cradle for ordinary use and a "gret cradille of estat". 
 A month after the delivery the mother would be "churched". This was a ceremonial blessing given to a mother recovering from childbirth and included a thanksgiving for her survival.
 After her first baby by Edward, Elizabeth was accompanied to the church with musicians, a large choir, and numbers of ladies and maidens. Afterwards there was feasting and dancing, but the queen sat alone on a golden throne attended by her mother and the king's sister. Elizabeth then resumed her normal routine. 
 Noble women like Elizabeth would have had a wet-nurse to take on the duties of breastfeeding after the birth. It was thought demeaning for a woman of aristocratic or royal rank to nurse her own children. It was normally the father's responsibility to find a suitable nurse. 
 Elizabeth Woodville (c.1437-1492)
* The White Queen: Who was the real Elizabeth Woodville?
 * Who was King Edward IV, the man she married?
 * What did The White Queen really look like?
 * What happened to her sons the Princes in the Tower?
 * The White Queen and The White Princess: What happened next?
 * What became of The White Queen, her family and foes?
 * Catch up with The White Queen on BBC iPlayer
 In the mid-14th Century, Gervase de Rouclif, a gentleman living outside of York asked a former servant of his best friend, who had just given birth, to nurse the child his wife Ellen had just delivered. She refused saying 'she loved her own son as much as Ellen loved hers and consequently she did not want to allow her own son to die on account of Ellen's son'. 
 By preventing women of rank from breastfeeding, royal and aristocratic husbands increased the likelihood of further pregnancy - an important consideration as so many died young.
 In the Middle Ages there is only limited evidence for institutional provision for childbirth. Mothers gave birth in their own homes and not in hospitals and male medics only ever attended in an emergency. 
 Elizabeth gave birth to her last child by Edward, Bridget of York, in her forties. Although ten survived the dangerous early years, the danger would continue throughout their lives. Her second son by her first husband was executed while the heir to the throne Edward and his brother Richard, 'The Princes in the Tower', disappeared in 1483.
