These suggestions provide ways for pupils to imagine and investigate the lives of women who worked on the home front during World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Children could make a list of jobs women took on during World War One. Which jobs meant wearing uniforms? Encourage pupils to use specific vocabulary to describe elements of these outfits, with terms such as 'tunic', 'pinafore', 'galoshes' and 'forage cap'. 
 Women in World War One did not serve in combat. They do now. Why do children think this change has happened? 
 Pupils could go on to draw comic strips showing a woman's day in the war years. A day's work might include, getting the kids off to school, queuing for rations, working in a munitions factory, digging over the allotment at home, writing a letter to a husband away at war, knitting comforters for troops or putting up blackout curtains. Pupils could use information in the BBC Schools content as well as material from books and websites to help them. 
 The comic strips could consist simply of stick figures and captions or could be more ambitious productions based on the children's sketches of wartime photographs from books and websites.
 Based on their experience of the BBC Schools content, what do pupils think would have been the worst jobs in the 1914 home? What jobs might children have done? Ask the class to list the chores of a housewife (or a maidservant) in 1914. Do they think women's lives were affected by new technology?
 Invite pupils to suggest changes a country girl born in 1890 might have seen by 1918. Make a list (for example motor cars, planes, phones, airships, electric lights at home and cinema shows). How did workplace technology (typewriters, phones) change life for working women?
 You could stage a question and answer session with role-plays. Some children could act as 'interviewers' and others could take on the character of, say, a Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD) nurse, land army girl, housewife or munitions worker. Boys in the class might take on the role of a child left at home while mum is out at work or the character of a male worker in a reserved occupation who sees women joining a workforce that was once exclusively male. What might these characters think of such changes? Would they welcome them? 
 You could invite pairs of children to try to get inside the heads of the opposite gender by suggesting subtitles to some of the things a character says which reveal the character's inner feelings. For example, a VAD nurse might say 'The wounded men are so brave and I know we'll all pull through,' but privately think 'The work's grisly and stressful, I'm not sure I'll cope. But it's wonderful to be out in the world and not shut away at home.' A male farm worker might say 'I'm jolly glad these land girls have come to help. They're just as good as any man,' but privately think, 'I hope they go back to their kitchens after the war's won and leave the proper jobs to us.'
 Useful links
* World War One: Propaganda Posters
 You could ask pupils to study examples of wartime posters that encouraged women to take on work outside the home. Pupils could produce their own versions of these posters or design their own posters to encourage the mothers and sisters of World War One Britain to go out to work.
 As the children work on their designs, you could prompt their reflection with questions such as: 'About 2 million women in Britain had jobs outside the home by 1918. How did this affect family life and women's expectations?', 'How did men's views of women change during the war?' and 'What messages were these posters giving?'
 In the hungry war years, any productive space was put to work growing food. Pupils could try preparing a vegetable plot, if your school has space, to raise a crop of their own. 
 Even small backyards were pressed into use. If space is an issue, you could try growing some vegetables in containers. Something as small as a window box can be used to grow lettuces while staples like potatoes, tomatoes or runner beans can be grown in sacks, large pots or bins. 
 Pupils could link this work to their study of green plants in science. They could take photographs and measurements of their growing vegetables and note the conditions in which they grow best.
 Finally, the class could harvest their vegetables, cook them and enjoy them.
 Useful links
* Imperial War Museums: War industry during World War One
 You could ask pupils to research from books and websites where the main industries were located in Britain during World War One. For example, which areas were important for ship-building? Coal mining? Farming? Pupils could mark major industrial areas on a wall map of the UK. 
 They could add sketches around the map to illustrate the roles women played in keeping these industries going in wartime. Each sketch could be linked by a thread to a location on the map.
 Women entered the arms factories in ever-growing numbers during the war. For example, before the war, virtually no women worked in the munitions factory at Woolwich Arsenal in London. By 1916, 9,400 women were on the workforce. By 1917, the number of women employed had risen to 24,719.
 Pupils could calculate the percentage increase in women workers at Woolwich Arsenal between 1916 and 1917. They could draw up a line graph to show the rise in women workers there over the war years (beginning at zero in 1913). They could extend the line graph to show how the trend might have continued if the war had not come to an end in 1918.
 Pupils could make similar calculations and draw up a graph to show the increase in the numbers of women employed by the London and General Omnibus Company (226 in 1914 and 2,832 by 1918).
 Useful links
* Imperial War Museums: Women's war work during World War One
 * BBC Inside Out: Wartime Factory Disaster
 * Nottinghamshire County Council: Chilwell: National Shell Filling Factory Explosion
 * Keyworth and District Local History Society: The Canary Girls of Chilwell
 Women who worked in munitions factories, making bombs and armaments, were sometimes nicknamed 'canary girls' because some of the chemicals they were exposed to gave their skin and hair a yellowish tinge. 
 The Ministry of Munitions operated at least twelve major arms factories in Britain during the war years. There were factories at: Woolwich Arsenal in London; Barnbow in Leeds; Aintree in Liverpool, Hereford, Georgetown in Renfrewshire, Quedgeley in Gloucestershire, Chilwell in Nottinghamshire, Hayes in Middlesex, Banbury in Oxfordshire, Whitmore Park in Coventry, Cardonald near Glasgow and White Lund in Morecambe.
 Pupils could plot all these locations on a map of the UK. Which one is nearest to your school? Challenge the children to find out more about their nearest munitions factory. Can they track down photographs of the building online or in books? Does a local newspaper archive mention the factory? Are any of the factory buildings still there?
 The factory work could be dangerous. In July 1918, there was a major accident at Chilwell. The BBC's Inside Out programme published an account of the accident online that the class could read. The names of those who died are recorded on a memorial and listed on Nottinghamshire County Council's website. Can they find examples of members of the same family who died in the disaster?
 Pupils could calculate the proportion of women's names on the memorial. What does their answer show about the workforce at the factory?
 Office work in the early 1900s was revolutionised by the introduction of the typewriter. Women in particular came to dominate the typing pool, which soon became a fixture of office life. Typists were trained to 'touch type' so they could work quickly and accurately without looking at the keys. Women would market their skills by referring to their 'typing speed' when they applied for a job.
 Pupils could test their own typing speeds using a word-processor while a friend times them with a stopwatch. They could type a sample passage for a period of one minute then count up the number of words correctly typed. They are not allowed to correct mistakes: typewriters did not allow you to erase what you'd already written. With practice, can pupils improve their typing speeds? 
 Pupils could try using a typewriter. How does the mechanical typewriter compare with today's electronic keyboards? What are the disadvantages? Are there any advantages?
 Pupils could go on to make some other calculations too: the average weekly wage for a woman worker at Chilwell was £1, 10s. A man at the factory earned £2. How much more did a man earn? How much would a man or a woman earn in a year? In March 1916, Chilwell was turning out 7,000 explosive shells a week. How many shells could the factory turn out in a month? In a year?
 In the war years, one store set up a training school for female shop assistants. Among other things, they were shown how to test the freshness of eggs by using a candle. Pupils can try this technique using a torch instead.
 Pupils should cover the top of the torch with tinfoil and pierce a pinhole in the foil, so the torch produces just a single thin beam of light. Working in a darkened room, they should hold an egg lengthways over the pinhole so that the egg lights up like a dim lantern. Inside the egg, they will be able to see the yolk, the clear 'white' of the egg and a small air pocket at the top of the egg. 
 Fresh eggs have clearly defined yolks, 'whites' that are translucent and not cloudy and small air pockets. The older the egg is, the more blurred the outlines of the yolk will be, the cloudier the 'white' and the larger the air pocket. Pupils could use their torches to grade a selection of eggs.
 The children can confirm their findings with a second test, popular in the days before refrigeration when keeping eggs fresh was more of a problem. Put an egg into a tumbler of cold water. If it sinks and takes up a horizontal position, it's very fresh. If the egg floats and its pointed end sticks up at an angle, then it is old and stale.
 Useful links
* British Postal Museum: The Post Office and World War One
 Thousands of women worked as bilingual censors during the war according to the British Postal Museum. Their job was to check letters for references to information that might have been sensitive if it fell into enemy hands. Anything that related to troop movements, battle fronts or matters on the home front such as food prices, railway lines or factories was carefully blotted out.
 You could set pupils a challenge. Ask one group of children to compose a letter which contains several references to 'sensitive' subjects. They should use an online dictionary to help them translate the letter into a language which they study at school.
 They could then swap a copy their letter with another group. The groups should now act as censors, blotting out any 'sensitive' references. Do they manage to spot them all or do some slip through?
