Saint Paul wrote 13 of the 27 books of the New Testament and travelled over 10,000 miles on foot to spread the word of Jesus. David Suchet has retraced his travels to get closer to one of the most controversial and charismatic figures in Christianity.
 Saint Paul has always been a hero of mine and a character I had always wanted to play. Before actually following his remarkable journey myself, I knew he was an extraordinary human being. 
 On the road to Damascus
 Paul's conversion to Christianity is told in detail in Acts of the Apostles. Paul, then known as Saul, was a Jew who persecuted the early Christians.
 According to the Bible, when travelling from Jerusalem to Damascus he was blinded by a divine light and heard the voice of Jesus. He spent three days in Damascus unable to see until a Christian, Ananias of Damascus, directed by Jesus, performed a miracle to restore his vision. Saul was baptised and took the name Paul. 
 Paul went on to write 13 of the 27 books of the New Testament and to travel more than 10,000 miles as a Christian missionary. He took the title apostle, putting himself on an equal footing with Jesus's 12 closest followers during his lifetime.
 He took the message of Jesus from its beginnings in Palestine and made it his mission to convert the Roman world of his day. In effect, he was Christianity's first international ambassador. He challenged the world of the Pagan deities and the might of the Roman Empire itself by sowing the seeds of a radical, new faith that would one day become the dominant religion of the Mediterranean world. 
 My journey confirmed that without Paul's energy, commitment and vision of a just society, this new religion may have remained an obscure Jewish sect and certainly not have developed into a major world faith. 
 Some years ago, my own spiritual journey had led me to reading St Paul in the New Testament and I discovered his story looms very large in its pages. I found myself connecting with Paul's world view of love and compassion vividly conveyed in his letter to the Romans. It was a moment that led me to embrace Christianity. But the journey I was able to embark upon taught me so much more about this remarkable man.
 I knew that given the opportunity of following Paul across the Mediterranean world, I wanted to focus on what this human powerhouse was all about. What was he like? What drove him? Would he make for a good travelling companion? 
 As an actor I was well used to researching characters in preparation for different roles. Paul, however, was still an enigmatic figure to me, a mystery waiting to be solved. Good detective work was needed - and I have, after all, been fortunate in sharing my life with a famous Belgian detective who enjoys solving mysteries.
 Paul was a man on a mission. I was really impressed that he criss-crossed the Mediterranean on three occasions walking some 10,000 miles on foot and many more by sea in the 40s and 50s of the 1st century AD. 
 His travels were made possible by the incredible network of Roman roads. I had the opportunity to spend time walking the actual roads that Paul used such as the Via Ignatia that linked Rome to its Eastern Empire, which took me to Paul's key centres of operations in the early Church such as Jerusalem, Antioch and Ephesus in Turkey, Philippi, Thessalonica and Corinth in Greece, and finally on to Rome itself. 
 Paul was a smart operator - such cities were the great cross-roads of the Empire and cultural meeting points. Many of the cities that both Paul and I visited remain strategically important today and with the help of archaeological remains from two thousand years ago, I was able to really engage with his world. 
 Paul showed no fear in challenging this world, strengthened by his belief in the power of Jesus as Lord over false idols and the worship of Caesar as God. It brought success and failure in equal measure and I had to admire his tenacity and determination. 
 There was an urgency about his work, particularly in establishing new Christian communities, because Paul believed he was living in the end times and people had to be ready for Christ's second coming - which for him could be at any moment.
 As an actor, I spend my life dealing with words. Paul was a man of words, as we learn from his letters that he wrote to the various communities of believers he helped establish.
 I was surprised to learn that Paul, rather than writing the letters himself, would use the services of a scribe. So what we have access to is Paul's spoken words first and foremost. We have to listen to his words rather than just read them from the page. This opened up a whole new dimension in my understanding of Paul - one that particularly appealed to me as an actor.
 Paul continues to both challenge and inspire. There is no getting away from the fact that he generates a bad press. 
 Was St Paul misogynist?
 In the final section of Romans 16, Paul lists all the people he knows at Rome. 
 What is striking is that a third of all the people are women, and they are referred to by Paul as deacons, apostles, and leaders of house churches. 
 But most importantly of all, the letter to Rome - one of the most important letters that Paul would ever write - was sent to the church by the hand of a woman, Phoebe. 
 She might well be the one to read it out, and would certainly be expected to explain anything that wasn't clear. 
 If we ever needed any reassurance regarding Paul's high regard for women's abilities, this is surely it!
 He is accused of being a bigot and a misogynist. And there is no avoiding the fact that he was certainly single minded in his ambition and did not suffer fools gladly. He needed to be if he was to make an impact. 
 But I was amazed to discover that contrary to popular perception, Paul respected the role of women in his work and often commended them in his letters. One scholar I met on my travels even went as far to say that Paul was the true founder of 'women's liberation' given his liberal and revolutionary views on their role in his mission.
 Given Paul's temperament, his extreme views, his single mindedness of purpose, I am not sure I would have liked him or would want to spend too much time in his presence. However, there is no denying his place in the story of Christianity and in Western civilisation. It was a privilege getting to know him that little bit more!
 David Suchet presents In the Footsteps of Saint Paul on BBC1 at 0900GMT on Sun 23 and Mon 24 Dec 2012, repeated at 1800GMT on BBC HD or watch afterwards via BBC iPlayer (UK only) at the above link.
