These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine life at the time of World War One and to investigate how the war was fought.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to conduct their own research using primary source material.
 You could ask pupils to identify pictures of World War One aircraft shown in books and online, using the planes' distinctive wing-markings as a guide:
 German Gotha bomber plane
* British plane - red circle, ringed by white and then by blue
 * French plane - blue circle, ringed by white and then by red
 * Belgian plane - black circle, ringed by yellow and then by orange
 * German plane - large black cross
When looking at black-and-white photographs, how easy is it to distinguish British, French and Belgian planes?
 The children could go on to compare pictures of a scout (fighter) plane from World War One and a contemporary jet fighter. They could label the pictures with details of what they observe. Listing the differences between the planes will help pupils gain a sense of how technology has changed in the space of 100 years.
 An extract from the book 'Biggles of the Camel Squadron - The Professor's Story' by W E Johns, from the Biggles series could be read. Although not published until 1933, it gives a good sense of what air combat was like and can lead the pupils to consider what the dangers were for pilots.
 Illustrated trench scene
 Pupils could create a model of a section of trench using clay. Encourage them to show the Entente trenches o Library of Scotland's 'Experiences of war' resource
 First World War's collection of diary n one side of their models and the Alliance trenches on the other, with No-Man's-Land in between. This helps to establish how trench warfare was waged. The children could use coils of thin wire to represent the barbed wire defences. They could add strips of cardboard as trenching planks and scraps of rolled cloth as sandbags.
 You could take pupils into the playground to pace the distance between trenches. This helps the children to visualise clearly the narrow ground over which many of the battles were fought. Typically, enemy trenches were between 50 and 300 yards (45 to 275 metres) apart.
 Pupils might compose a soldier's diary entry, recounting one day in the trenches. The children could use information given in the article and flesh this out with their own research from books and websites. You could also read the class extracts of veterans' accounts, such as Harry Patch.
 WW1 poster advertising British military uniform
 'Tommy Atkins' was the widely-used nickname for an ordinary British soldier in 1914. 
 You could ask pupils to find a photograph of a British Tommy from a book, or to use an online photo archive.
 Ask the children to sketch their chosen photographs. 
 Encourage them to label the pictures to include key details about the soldier, his uniform and the equipment with which he was issued. 
 Letter from soldier to his mother
 Pupils could take on the role of a British Tommy and write their own letters home. To set the scene and increase the pupils' ability to empathize, you could read the passage from Michael Morpurgo's novel 'Private Peaceful', in which the soldier Tommo receives a letter from his mother. What do the children think Tommo might have written in reply? 
 Letter-writing helps pupils to think about the issues that soldiers confronted in the trenches. 
 Christmas postcard from the front line
 Pupils could improvise a short commentary on a Christmas Day football match, imagining the events as they happened and some of the likely points raised by the imaginary commentary team. Each pupil could cover a different part of the match. The children could record their efforts and edit them into a single, complete commentary.
