John Tucker Mugabi Sentamu was born in Uganda in 1949. He was appointed Archbishop of York in 2005. 
 The sixth of 13 children, he survived famine and illness during his childhood. He has said that he wouldn't be where he is today if it wasn't for the English teachers and missionaries who worked in Africa.. 
 He studied law at Makerere University and then worked as a barrister, before becoming a judge in the Uganda High Court. 
 In 1974, after 30 days in jail for his criticism of Idi Amin's dictatorial regime, he fled for the UK. His outspokenness and missionary zeal earned him a reputation as a leader who could bring new life to the Church of England. 
 During his 13 years as vicar of Holy Trinity Church, in Tulse Hill, south London, he increased the congregation tenfold. 
 As Bishop of Birmingham in 2002, he was the first senior black bishop appointed by the Church of England and two years later the first black archbishop, as the Archbishop of York, the second most important position in the Church. 
 From 1997 to 1999 Archbishop Sentamu was an adviser to the inquiry into the murder, in London, of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. In 2002 he chaired the review which criticised police methods following the stabbing in London of 10-year-old Nigerian schoolboy Damilola Taylor. 
 He is a prominent campaigner on race issues and no stranger to racist attitudes. 
 He publicly offered the hand of friendship to people who sent him racist mail after his appointment as Archbishop of York. 
 In an interview with the BBC he calmly described how some of the letters had been smeared with human excrement and how he had prayed for the letter writers, particularly those who had written to him anonymously. 
 "The Gospel offers forgiveness for the past, new life for the present, and hope for the future," he said. He's also vowed to banish homophobia from the Church.
 In 2007 he wore a hoodie to a church conference to urge people not to judge teenagers by their choice of fashion. 
 Later that same year, he cut up his clerical dog collar on TV in protest at President Mugabe's regime in Zimbabwe, saying he would not wear it again until the president had left office. 
 As Bishop of Birmingham, he took the unusual step of advertising in the local press, telling readers: "For God's Sake Birmingham, Use Your Vote!". 
 Three years later, he did the same before local elections in York. And on occasion of the 2010 general election he published an open letter together with the Archbishop of Canterbury calling for a renewal of civic values and virtues in Britain. 
 "If the general election is to be more than a celebrity contest, we must vote with our values," they wrote.
 partnership'
 As the Church of England's number two, Archbishop Sentamu has worked closely with its top bishop, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams. 
 In an interview with The Times before his inauguration in November 2005, Dr Sentamu called Dr Williams his "Moses" and described himself as Jethro, Moses' father-in-law who was very practical and offered Moses advice. 
 Dr Sentamu said: "People say to me, 'are you going to play second fiddle to the Archbishop of Canterbury?' That is not helpful. This is going to be a partnership."
 When the Anglican Church debated the divisive issue of women bishops he urged an end to the "spin and propaganda" against Dr Williams. 
 They both put their personal prestige behind a compromise plan, which would have allowed parishes unwilling to serve under a woman bishop to call upon the oversight of a male alternative.
