These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine life at the time of World War One and to investigate how the war was fought.
 Some prepared fact sheets about World War One illnesses and injuries could be given to pupils. These could include bullet wounds, gas poisoning, Spanish influenza, trench foot, shell shock, concussion and frostbite. 
 Ask the children to each choose a wartime injury or illness on the list. They could then go on to write a set of cards, describing symptoms, but not naming any conditions. For example; 'His ears ring. He struggles to breath after inhaling poisonous gas. He is itching from trench lice. He can't sleep. He has a deep bullet wound. He see things that aren't there.' (Shell shock)
 Shuffle the cards and deal them out to pairs of pupils, in-role as doctors or nurses in a field hospital. The pairs then race to conduct triage, by sorting their cards into three piles ('slightly injured', 'needs hospital', 'beyond help'). Pairs score a point for correctly placing each card, with the fastest pair to correctly sort all their cards scoring a bonus point. Pairs could score extra points by naming each condition described and by suggesting suitable treatments where appropriate.
 You could ask pupils to search for facts and figures about the 1918 'flu pandemic in books and online. Encourage the children to find out which countries were the most affected, what the symptoms of the disease were, and what steps people took to try and avoid catching it. Collate all the information gained into one class list.
 You could then challenge small groups of children to script a two-minute 'newsreel-style' presentation about the pandemic. The aim of this film is to encourage people on the home front to do what they can to protect themselves from the disease. 
 The children could perform their scripts for the rest of the class and perhaps make video clips of them.
 After reading the article on medicine, you could ask children to list all the medical advances it mentions (for example, the triage system and the development of X-Ray machines). Ask groups of pupils to find out more from books and websites about different items on the list.
 You might hold a class debate to decide which medical advance was the most significant. Encourage pupils to give reasons for their opinions. The class could take a vote to decide the outcome of the debate.
 You could ask pupils to research the life story of one of the 'medical heroes' mentioned in the article (Marie Curie, Elsie Inglis, or Edith Cavell). Encourage members of the class to present their research in a variety of ways - for example, as biographical text, a sound recording, a slide-show, a dramatisation or a graphic-novel-style comic strip. 
 Which of these women does the class consider to be the greatest medical hero of them all?
