The following suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine and investigate the lives of children and the work they would have done during World War One. 
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Pupils could take turns to mime a wartime job that a child might have done at home. Can their classmates guess what they're doing? Suggested jobs: sweeping, dusting, carrying coal, laying sticks on a fire, laying the table, making a bed, peeling potatoes.
 'Flags' were sold to raise money during the war for charities and the war effort. The pupils could design and make their own paper or cardboard flag with a pin. They might design the flag to promote a cause, such as helping wounded soldiers; raising money to build battleships or tanks; or the Blue Cross fund to help war horses. 
 For this activity you need to have some autumn conkers. Conkers were used to manufacture explosives during World War One. In 1917 children were encouraged to collect conkers and they could earn seven shillings and sixpence (37.5 p) for a hundredweight. A hundredweight is 112 lb (or 8 stone), which is equal to 50.8 kg. But how many conkers would that need?
 Give the class some conkers to weigh. Can they work out:
* The average mass of a conker?
 * Approximately how many conkers it would take to fill a 50 kg sack?
Girl Guides and Boy Scouts learnt to use flags to send messages during the war years. You could explain how flag signals were used, especially by ships at sea before radio. You might challenge pupils to devise their own ways of sending a simple message from one side of the playground to the other, using small paper flags. The children could go on to research the semaphore alphabet, using online sources. Do they think learning semaphore was useful to the Guides and Scouts in wartime?
 Girl Guides and Boy Scouts were taught first aid in the war years. How do pupils think these children may have used their first aid skills?
 You could show the class a British Pathé newsreel of Girl Guides demonstrating how to put someone onto a stretcher and carry them. 
 Pupils could practise the same manoeuvre themselves, if you have access to a stretcher. If not, the children could mime dealing with a stretcher. The class might go on to learn some basic first aid.
