These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine life at the time of World War One and to investigate how the war was fought.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to conduct their own research using primary source material.
 You could ask pupils to sketch examples of weapons, tanks and planes, using illustrations from books and websites as their sources. 
 The children could conduct web searches using terms such as 'machine gun first invented' or 'first use of poison gas in war', to discover more about their sketches. Encourage the children to write a label for each sketch.
 The class could co-operate to place all their sketches on a wall display, creating a technological timeline of weapon development. How many of these weapons existed before World War One? How many emerged during the course of the fighting? The timeline allows pupils to gain a chronological understanding of the war and to see how the pace of technological development was increased by war. 
 You could introduce the children to Morse code. Pupils could practice decoding short messages you write up on the board, until they become proficient. Children may also enjoy encoding short verbal messages in Morse, using the traditional 'dit' for a dot and 'dah' for a dash. For example: 'Dit-dit-dit. Dah-dah-dah. Dit-dit-dit' (SOS).
 Members of the class could find ways to transmit a Morse message, perhaps sending it across the playground using mirrors or torches. Pupils could make a simple telegraph system: a battery-powered electric circuit with a bulb or buzzer and a gap in the wires which can be bridged by tapping on a paper clip.
 You could challenge pupils to create their own code systems to send secret messages. They might create a message in their code and show it, along with a simple key, to other pupils. Can their peers decipher the message? 
 Reconnaissance camera, 1916
 Children could look at examples of aerial photography from the battle fronts of World War One.
 You could ask pupils to explain how they think these photographs would have helped the generals plan their campaigns.
 Challenge pupils to choose an aerial photograph and draw a map based on what they can interpret. Trenches are often easy to spot, since they have a characteristic zigzag pattern. (The zigzags helped to contain the blast of grenade explosions in small sections of trench.)
 Pupils could add a key to their maps, with symbols to represent, for example, bomb craters, machine gun posts and trenches, as well as landmarks such as churches and railway lines. The children could draw grids over their maps and note down the co-ordinates of major features. Can their friends correctly follow these grid references?
 Experimental tank 'Little Willie'
 You could give pupils a selection of World War One photos that show technological advances, such as tanks, machine guns or aircraft. Ask the children to write ten words to sum up what each photo shows us about the war. This could lead into a discussion about the importance of these photos today. How big a difference do the children think this technology made to the conduct of the war?
