The successor to Archbishop Rowan Williams is expected to be decided on Friday after two days of discreet debate and prayer by a committee of clergy and lay men and women. 
 The Crown Nominations Commission (CNC) convened on Wednesday 26 September. After months of deliberations, it will make its final recommendation as to who should get the top job in the Anglican Church. 
 When Dr Williams announced his intention to step down in March the process for electing the 105th Archbishop of Canterbury began. That process is nearly at an end, but the identity of the new Primate of all England may not be revealed for a number of weeks.
 While the CNC - a committee of 16 men and women made up of bishops, the clergy and lay people - will end its deliberations on Friday, the Queen, in her role as supreme governor of the church, must sign off on the appointment after advice from the Prime Minister.
 After two days of "careful and prayerful consideration", the CNC will offer two names to David Cameron - a preferred choice and a second electable candidate. 
 Mr Cameron will then counsel the Queen, but since 2007 the agreed convention in relation to Episcopal appointments has been that the Prime Minister recommends the name preferred by the CNC.
 Electing a new Archbishop
* Two names will be presented to the Prime Minister by the CNC. A preferred choice and a second suitable choice. 
 * He will then counsel the Queen, who as Supreme Governor of the Church of England will decide who will be the next Archbishop of Canterbury. 
 * Once the Queen has approved the chosen candidate and he has indicated a willingness to serve, 10 Downing St will announce the name of the archbishop-designate.
 * The College of Canons of Canterbury Cathedral will then formally elect the new Archbishop of Canterbury.
 * The election is confirmed by a commission of diocesan bishops in a legal ceremony (the Confirmation of Election), which confers the office of archbishop on him.
 * After paying homage to the Queen, the new archbishop is formally enthroned in Canterbury Cathedral.
 A second name is put forward in case of a change in circumstances, which means the recommended candidate cannot proceed.
 Once the Queen has approved the chosen candidate and he has indicated a willingness to serve, Downing Street will announce the name of the archbishop-designate.
 So what is known about who will take over this role? With no decision on the ordination of women bishops, we know that the new archbishop will be a man. 
 They must also have links with the Church of England, but they can be based in a different province.
 "This process involves extensive consultation, analysis of the role and challenges of a new archbishop along with prayerful consideration of candidates deemed to have the personal qualities required," said a Church of England spokesperson. 
 "All its proceedings are necessarily confidential."
 The Bishop of Carlisle, the Right Reverend James Newcome and the Bishop of Gloucester, the Right Reverend Michael Perham have been elected by the House of Bishops to sit on the CNC, effectively removing themselves from the running.
 A number of names have been linked with the post with many commentators favouring the Bishop of Durham, the Right Reverend Justin Welby or the Bishop of Coventry, the Right Reverend Christopher Cocksworth.
 Another favourite is the Archbishop of York, Dr John Sentamu. As Primate of England he is the second most senior bishop in the Church.
 Earlier this year he decided not to take up his membership of the CNC, which means he can be considered for the post. Many commentators say his decision not to be part of the commission is a clear indication of his ambition. 
 Whatever the decision we are likely to know the identity of the new archbishop ahead of November's General Synod in London.
 That meeting will decide whether women can be ordained as bishops in Church of England and all eyes will be on the archbishop-designate to see which side he favours in an increasingly divided Church.
