What are the best ways to avoid rip-offs and spend your money wisely?
 Dominic Littlewood from Don't Get Done, Get Dom shares his seven golden rules. 
 Whether you're having a new kitchen, replacement windows or a spot of decorating, it's down to you to inspect the work carried out.
 Make sure any issues are resolved within a reasonable time frame. 
 Citizen's Advice has information on what to do if building work is poor quality.
 When you buy most goods, such as televisions or washing machines, you are protected by the Sale of Goods Act. This means any item should be free from defects and should last six years. 
 If you are offered an extended warranty, check carefully what extra protection it would give you. 
* Are care plans or warranties worth it?
 Dodge the banger
* Check the MOT certificate and service history
 * Take a good look at the V5 registration document. Check for spelling mistakes or alterations
 * If you don't know much about cars take someone who does or consider paying to get an independent report
 If you are buying a new car, look online for reviews of the particular model you're interested in. 
 Always test drive the car before buying. 
 If that's not possible, take a drive in a car of the same make, model and specification. 
 If buying a used car you should check that the seller's information matches what's on the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA) database.
 You could also get a private history check done online. This should reveal whether the car is stolen, if it's been in an accident, whether it has the right mileage or has any money owing on it.
 There are various companies that offer this service online. It could cost you a few quid but could save thousands in the long run.
 OK, this sounds obvious but it's very important: only take out a loan you can afford to pay back. 
 Do your homework, find out whether the company will charge you an upfront fee. If so, check what it's for and whether it is refundable. 
 Make sure you understand the terms of the loan, the APR and how much you get charged for late repayments. 
 Shop around to find the best deal for you. 
 Cutting costs
* Save money on your supermarket shopping
* Could you cut your energy bills by a third?
* How to reduce your car fuel costs
 A glossy holiday website might be offering fantastic deals on flights, hotels and transfers but looks can be deceiving. 
 You may think you are being sold the full package holiday and that you'll be protected by regulations.
 However, a company might only be booking certain parts of the package for you. If this happens, you are not protected. 
 You will need to know who your providers are for each element of your holiday in case you have reason to complain. Check the small print in the sales literature.
 Consumer group Which? has advice if you are unhappy with your package holiday or wish to claim compensation.
 Debt collectors cannot force their way into your home and take your possessions. Companies have to call them off if you dispute owing them money (at least while it's being investigated). 
 How to dispute a debt
* Did you sign a credit agreement?
 * Has the lender followed the proper procedures?
 * Did you sign an agreement to borrow money when you didn't want to?
 * Has the time limit for recovering the debt run out?
 * Is the credit agreement legally unfair?
 Bailiffs are allowed to gain access to your home but not at night or if there are children present. The same goes if it's the home of a vulnerable person on their own. 
 Bailiffs have to give seven days' notice before taking possessions and must leave essentials such as a washing machine.
 The National Debtline has advice if you are getting harassed by creditors or debt collectors. 
 All too often big bills are down to children using the phone without anyone knowing. 
 Some companies offer capping services that stop you from overspending. Other plans restrict you to your allocated minutes. Pay-as-you-go tariffs are another option for avoiding big bills. 
 Be especially careful if using your phone abroad. 
 Check Ofcom guidance if you think you've been overcharged.
