These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to explore the life story of Caroline Haslett and to find out more about the World War One period.
 Useful link
* Edwardian morning routine
 You could ask the class, 'How would you and your family manage at home without electricity?' Invite members of the class to mime a daily household task carried out with the help of electricity. The children might choose a job such as making breakfast, washing clothes, ironing or cleaning the carpet. When you clap your hands, pupils should mime how they would approach the same task without the aid of electricity.
 Ask: 'How would you keep in touch with your friends without electricity? How would you see to read or do your homework? How would you keep yourself entertained?' Again, encourage pupils to do with-and-without-electricity mimes in response.
 Pupils could go on to try a physical task. They could try vacuuming a rug and also try putting it over a washing line and beating it to get the dust out. Which approach to the task do they prefer?
 Caroline Haslett campaigned to make people and especially women, better informed about technological developments such as electricity. Discuss with the children how to use electrical devices safely and together agree a set of simple rules (these rules should include the point that only adults should plug electrical devices into wall sockets).
 One of Caroline's campaigns was to encourage all adults to know how to wire a plug safely. Show pupils a household plug. Does anyone know the correct positioning of coloured wires that should be used?
 Pupils could do a series of drawings showing the correct arrangement of wires and some incorrect arrangements or colours of wire too. The children could then show these drawings to adults and ask them to pick the correct arrangement. Do most adults know how to wire a plug? Pupils could draw up a graph to show the results of their survey.
 The children could go on to devise a simple song or jingle to remind everyone of the safe way to wire a plug.
 Ask the children to put pins into a wall map of Britain and a map of the world to show significant places in Caroline Haslett's life: there are many places mentioned on the BBC Schools webpage about her. The children could stick labels next to each pin with the place name and the date Caroline was there.
 Using a single thread, members of the class could trace Caroline's journey through life from one place to another, winding the thread around each pin in the map, until the final complicated route is revealed.
 Before, during and after World War One there was huge popular interest in science and in science fiction stories. 'The War of the Worlds' by H.G. Wells (first published in 1898) was taken by some as a prediction of what mechanised war would be like. The Martian war machines, the argument goes, are a foreshadowing of the modern tank, first used during World War One.
 You could read a short extract from 'The War of the Worlds' to the class. Chapter 10 gives the narrator's first glimpse of a war machine. Do pupils agree that it in some way predicts the tanks of the World War One?
 Many new machines were developed during World War One. Using online sources, pupils could find out when individual items of military hardware were first deployed. When were aeroplanes first used in war? When were machine guns first used? 
 The class could develop a timeline on a wall display to show the results of their research. They could add labels, photographs and sketches.
 Also onto the timeline could go the dates when various household devices were first developed. When were the first washing machines, vacuum cleaners or electric kettles sold? When did the toaster or electric iron make its debut?
 Caroline Haslett worked hard to make science more popular as a subject, for people in general and women in particular. You could ask the class to design a workshop of hands-on activities and investigations that demonstrate basic scientific principles, such as how electrical circuits work, the link between magnetism and electricity, or how light and sound waves behave.
 The class could invite another class, or perhaps older relatives, to come along to the workshop and try out the activities. Your pupils could take a Haslett-style role, demonstrating and explaining the various activities, to spark an interest in science and technology.
 Technological changes after the World War One brought many new things into everyday life, including radio, television, motor cars and a whole range of home appliances. What do pupils think science will bring to us in the next 20 years?
 Caroline Haslett made use of magazines to promote her ideas and encourage women's interest in science. Magazines of the period showed people how to make simple radios called crystal sets for example, and even televisions.
 Children could design their own magazine encouraging today's readers to make something or try something new.
 Useful link
* BBC Primary History: Famous People Index
 You could brief pairs of children to find out more about the lives of Caroline Haslett and other significant figures of the war years, using information from the 'My Life' site, as well as BBC Primary History's Famous People content. 
 Hold a class debate, to decide the question: 'Who was the most historically significant figure of the World War One?' Encourage pupils to put forward a case for the historical figure they have researched. The speakers will also need to explain what they consider 'historic significance' to be. Encourage the listeners to ask questions of the speakers that compare the competing claims of the different historical figures.
