Death. Is not a subject most of us feel comfortable talking about. So when we got the green light for a new three part series on the world of funeral directors, we knew this was going to be tough
 Examining how attitudes to death differ from person to person and from faith to faith, Dead Good Job follows undertakers working with families from a wide range of beliefs - as well as those with none. 
 Dealing with the death of a close friend or family relative is hard enough; having a camera crew asking to film your most private and personal moment of grief adds a whole new dimension. 
 The production team realised this was no ordinary assignment. They had to win trust and become a listening ear for people dealing with the reality of death for the first time.
 Our series features everything from the traditional sombre ceremony to the quick turnaround of Muslim funerals, plus the individual choice of a biker whose desire for a high speed send-off is realised when he gets his last wish of a final ride in a motorcycle hearse.
 There is also a Hindu undertaker on a mission to ensure the soul makes a safe journey into the next life, the story of those who die alone without family or friends and those who choose humanist woodland burials.
 Finding the funeral directors and organisers was the easy bit. The difficulty came when approaching families who had just lost a close relative to allow us to film one of the most personal and upsetting days of their life. 
 We relied on the funeral directors to make the initial approach to the bereaved, before following this up ourselves over many cups of tea to explain the rationale and approach of the series, after which most people were happy to be filmed.
 We had to be mindful of religious etiquette and secured fantastic access to a family-run firm of Muslim funeral directors in the east end of London. For Muslims, the burial of the dead usually happens within 24 hours with the minimum of fuss.
 'Celebrate life'
 At the grave side, material had to be shot by a male camera operator as women are not allowed to witness burials. Footage from inside the mosque and at the grave side gives viewers a real cultural insight into the ritual and beliefs around death from an Islamic perspective.
* The third and final episode of Dead Good Job is on BBC Two, 26 September at 21:00 BST (23:50 BST in Scotland)
 * The series will be repeated with signing on BBC One from Thu/Fri 4/5 October at 01:55 BST
 Although death, when it comes, can be sudden, more and more people are planning their own funerals and we wanted to capture this side of the story. 
 Denise, a terminally-ill mother of two, was brave enough to allow us to capture her thoughts and feelings as she prepared for her own funeral, giving us an emotional narrative and alternative perspective to what funerals mean to different individuals.
 Filming funerals represented one our biggest challenges, given the sensitivities involved. We were careful to ensure our presence was not overly intrusive. We had to get all the right shots while keeping a respectful distance from the mourners during their private moment of grief.
 With some of the funerals, rituals happen at a rapid pace and if you miss a crucial shot there is no going back. We just had to work around whatever was happening on the day whilst also securing consent from those we captured on camera.
 The courage of the contributors is something that shines through the series. One particularly moving segment from the final episode sees Blossom determined to ensure her funeral is a celebration. 
 We follow her as she arranges her own funeral party complete with a DJ, balloons and a party cake for family and friends to celebrate her life in the way she wants - and on her terms.
 Most of the team found the experience of dealing and talking about death on a daily basis strangely comforting. It opened up discussions about our individual final wishes, something none of us had really thought about. 
 Seeing a dead body for the first time is quite an experience. It is quite a shock when the funeral director pulls a tray out of the mortuary fridge. 
 But any fears about open coffins and witnessing body washing soon disappeared and it all became part of "a day's work" - just as it is for the funeral directors themselves.
