More from Food
* Food myth 
 * Supermarket struggles 
 * Sit down dinners 
 * What is bunny chow? 
 Once relegated to the back of cupboards and consigned to gathering dust, there is now a revival of interest in pressure and slow cookers.
 Move over stews, casseroles, and curries - slow and pressure cookers are back and being used to make a myriad of unique dishes.
 From pulled pork, to mulled wine and puddings, a new wave of cooks is embracing the inventions created to help people save time.
 Award-winning food writer Christopher Hirst is a recent convert. 
 "I found my slow cooker at the bottom of the cupboard. It was something from the 70s in some rather ghastly orangey brown," he says.
 Slow cooker stars:
 Since the discovery, Mr Hirst's new favourite recipe is an eight-hour venison joint with garlic, onions and apple.
 "It seems to me that a slow cooker does all the work of a sous vide (cooking food in a water bath) or indeed an Aga but the costs are minimal," Mr Hirst says.
 Slow cookers, also known as crock pots, can be plugged in and left to simmer food at a low temperature for many hours, and retail for as little as £11. This means they can be left to cook while people are out at work and another bonus is that they use very little electricity compared to oven or hob cooking. 
 Pressure cookers cook food quickly in a sealed vessel, which does not allow air or liquid to be released below a pre-set pressure. The boiling liquid inside and its steam pressure creates saturated steam that cooks the food.
 Slow and pressure cookers might not be popular with celebrity chefs but they have a huge online following, where there is a global conversation amongst bloggers and "vloggers" (video bloggers) who share recipes for pork ribs and cheesecakes. 
 Slow or pressure?
 Slow cookers: Electric slow cookers apply a low level of heat over a long time. A casserole can take eight hours on a low setting.
 Pressure cookers: Saturated steam cooks food quickly in a sealed vessel, which does not allow air or liquid to be released below a pre-set pressure. 
 Sharon Adetoro blogs under the name Frugal Mum of 3. "As a single parent I needed to save money," she explains, "and one of the ways I could do that was food consumption. 
 "The slow cooker introduced me to using leftovers. I can now make a chicken last three days."
 This grassroots appeal is reflected in rising popularity - with large retailers seeing an increase in sales. 
 Slow cooker sales on Amazon.co.uk have risen by 55% over the past two years, while pressure cooker purchases have gone up by 66% in the past year.
 Find out more:
 Retailer John Lewis says its sales of slow cookers have risen by 65% from the summer into the winter each year since 2008, and Argos saw an 11% rise in the sale of pressure cookers and slow cookers from 2011 to 2012.
 The increase in sales of pressure cookers is partly down to the food writer Catherine Phipps, who wrote the widely-acclaimed The Pressure Cooker in 2012.
 Ms Phipps had a sudden conversion to the joys of the pressure cooker. 
 She says: "I was helping my brother and sister-in-law move house. She is Brazilian. We unpacked the kitchen and I suggested ordering a take-away. But at this moment she got her pressure cooker out and within half an hour we were eating feijoada (a stew of beans and pork)." 
 Ms Phipps says that the pressure cooker is hugely popular across Latin America and South Asia. "In fact it is pretty much universal except in the UK." 
 In her cookbook Ms Phipps gives recipes for delicate dishes like parmesan custards. "When people are coming round mine for dinner they specifically ask for it as a starter," she says.
 The Digestor for Softening Bones
 The pressure cooker may be associated with post-war cooking but its origins go back to the 17th century. 
 Denis Papin was a Frenchman who came over to London in the 1670s. He wanted to invent a vessel that would be able to cook cheap cuts of meat and therefore improve the diet of the poor. 
 After many nights of experimenting with different contraptions he presented his Digestor for Softening Bones to the Royal Society. He demonstrated how it was possible to cook meats, vegetables, rice and jellies in a pressure cooker without using much fuel.
 The Royal Society was impressed by Papin's Digestor and they published his experiments. However, Papin was not able to make money out of the invention within his lifetime. He was last heard of in 1712 and it is thought that he died a pauper. 
 She believes that many people have an unfair image of pressure cookers producing dreary meals. 
 She says: "From the 1950s onwards, when pressure cookers first became popular, here we were still in the middle of rationing.
 "There was an awful lot of beige food around. I think pressure cookers suffered by association."
 Pressure cookers have a reputation, some might say unfounded, for causing food-related explosions. So fact or fiction?
 Sheila Dillon, presenter of The Food Programme, recalls a messy incident: "My mother was cooking beetroots in the pressure cooker and the valve blew. The kitchen was covered in beetroot juice. You can imagine how much fun that was to clean up." 
 But pressure cookers have got much more sophisticated. 
 "These days they do have more than one release mechanism," explains Ms Phipps. "So if one blocks for some reason the pressure will be released elsewhere."
 As well as being useful for cooking cheap ingredients the pressure cooker has also become a firm favourite of modernist cuisine. 
 As Ms Phipps says: "When you get chefs like Heston Blumenthal saying that the only method that they use for stock making is pressure cooking, then there's got to be something in it."
