More from Food
* Food myth 
 * Supermarket struggles 
 * Sit down dinners 
 * What is bunny chow? 
 Global meat production takes up much of the planet's agricultural land and resources, and some food experts argue it is time to stop eating meat regularly and save it for special occasions.
 In ancient times, slaughtering an animal for a feast was a ritual that celebrated the animal's life and death, and could feed people for a week. 
 In many countries, meat remains a treat, but not in Britain where the typical diet is made up of 70% meat and dairy, according to World Wildlife Fund research. 
 There is a food divide, says Dr Tara Garnett of the Food Climate Research Network - the rich world where "high income countries have access in a rich world to a range of foods" versus " poor countries which face a lack of dietary diversity, more based on tubers, and critically no micronutrients". 
 She says: "Why do we eat what we eat? It's the food available, the food we have access to, and food knowledge that influence our decisions.
 "We need to consume less meat - and poor countries need sustainable agri-nutritional pathways (as livestock contributes to the livelihoods of the poor)."
 With seven billion people in the world, nearly one billion people are undernourished or starving according to the World Health Organisation, despite the world producing enough food to feed the human population twice over.
 Make each cut count:
 Barbecue pulled pork 'low and slow'
 The Vegan Society says a third of grain grown is fed to farm animals, and 25% of the world's land surface is given over to grazing more than 1.25 billion cattle. 
 Food writer Alex Renton has just written Planet Carnivore. He says on Radio 4's Food Programme this kind of production and consumption is unsustainable for the future. 
 "We can feed 9bn people in 2050, but we can't feed them all with the current amount of animal products that the 'rich' world uses at the moment," he says.
 "That leaves us with a key problem - we have to either tell people not to eat meat any longer, and there is no mechanism for doing that, or we have to develop better ways of growing and delivering animal products that they are not so expensive on resources."
 Could mainstream society returning to a feasting sensibility be the answer?
 The over-production and over-consumption of meat is a very old problem, which was first raised in the 18th Century, says Professor Tim Lang, a former farmer who is now Professor of Food Policy at City University London.
 But now he says it is now "at an unsustainable level" and recently told the Cheltenham Science Festival there is a cultural problem in what people think a "good diet" is.
 The new vegans: 
* London is set to get its first Veganz supermarket in 2014. It'sa German chain which has four stores stocking 6,000 plant-based products, that says only 40% of its customers are actually vegans.
 * Alex Bourke publisher of Veggie Guides: "When I started there were a handful of vegan restaurants... now there's around 30 restaurants and something new opening every month."
 * Food writer Alex Renton says: "I came in to this as a happy omnivore and someone who's pretty bored by vegans and what I thought was their preaching. I've done a U-turn really and it's a moral position I now respect. To my immense surprise I am now standing outside a door marked veganism."
 * VB6 author Mark Bittman says: "The deeper you get in to this kind of cooking and eating the more you discover you can cook, eat, enjoy." 
 * Listen to more on Radio 4's Food Programme on Rethinking Veganism
 "Do you think you choose your food? You choose within the confines of our culture. Progress - what is it? What is a good society? Three packets of meat for £10?," he queried.
 Prof Lang says food policy makers are beginning to address meat consumption, but the UK is slow to catch up countries like Germany and Sweden.
 Change, he thinks, needs to come from society - by setting new cultural rules, including making meat an occasional, main event.
 "The new cultural rules... is it low/no meat? I think yes," Prof Lang explains.
 "We have all got to be prepared to change. Undertake some changes yourself. Maybe today we won't have meat, we'll have it on a feast day. 
 "But what is that? How do you have one if you are not religious? I'm an atheist, but I am not opposed to a feast day. It doesn't have to be religious."
 Make it meat-free:
 Sustainable food expert Michael Pollan also endorses the return to "meat feasts".
 He said: "We need to go back with our meat eating, to a point where meat was special, because for our health and the health of the environment we can't continue to keep eating meat the way we are."
 One of the ideas he favours is slow cooked meat feasting that feeds a large group of people for one meal, or provides multiple small meals. 
 The idea is to invest more in the quality of the meat and its preparation, rather than buying lots of cheaper cuts.
 Many omnivores are already eating more vegetable-based dishes more often, as seasonal produce recipes have been widely popularised by mainstream chefs like Yotam Ottolenghi and Nigel Slater. 
 For some, part-time veganism is another way of looking at this approach.
 Negative stereotypes of veganism that stop it being attractive include the perceptions that it is austere, weak, extreme and involves sacrifice, says sociologist Dr Richard Twine. 
 He says meat is often an assumed part of a meal, has associations with masculinity and strength, and this coupled with food choices being very personal, has meant veganism has had a tough battle to become mainstream.
 But Dr Twine says the "meanings of veganism are shifting as it becomes more normal - so now increasingly associated with health, strength and pleasure". 
 "I favour a strategy of part-veganisation, in which more people feel socially comfortable to eat a plant-based diet more of the time," Dr Twine says.
 Another person advocating this strategy is New York Times food writer Mark Bittman.
 He has just written VB6: Eat Vegan Before 6:00 to Lose Weight and Restore Your Health … for Good. He developed this style of eating - meat and dairy after 18:00 but not before - after his doctor indicated he needed to change for health reasons. 
 He tells Radio 4's Food Programme: "The whole idea was to make something achievable. Make some rules but allow for gratification also - because let's face it, very people either in the states in the US or the UK are going to come out and be 100% vegans. 
 "But a lot of people can be convinced they should be eating more plant food and the science tells us that's what they should be doing."
 He said the reaction he has had from vegans has been "mixed".
 	"
 I personally don't believe feasts are necessary as we don't need animal protein, but if people want to do that then it is definitely a step in the right direction"
 "There are those who believe I am a scourge on the earth, a blot on the landscape… but then there are some vegans who think this is great, because they believe that we need to be eating and using fewer animal products and they recognise this in a step in the right direction." 
 Jasmijn de Boo, CEO of the Vegan Society says small steps can help pave the way towards a fully plant-based diet.
 "We still believe it's better for animals, environment and people to eat a (fully) plant-based diet, but to raise those questions in people's minds 'do we really need to eat that much?' - often you'll see people transition slowly. Not many people turn vegan overnight. 
 "Often people learn new things and start to question the evidence, and they will be able to take on new messages, not necessarily going vegan overnight, but trying a vegan breakfast, trying a vegan meal, and finding it out it's healthy and fun," says Jasmijn de Boo.
 "I personally don't believe feasts are necessary because we don't need animal protein, all the nutrients you can get from animal products, you can get from plant-based products, but if people want to do that then it is definitely a step in the right direction," she says.
 Dr Twine wants food policy advice to be reassessed and redistributed to people.
 "The Eat Well Plate is telling you to eat meat and dairy everyday," he explains, "sociologists are interested in how a social practice becomes normal and proliferates. I think (reducing meat consumption) is achievable by a focus on replacement, which gives concept of sustainability more depth."
 Maybe it's quite an easy thing to try. As after all, says Jasmijn de Boo: "Our message is quite simple really, everyone already eats vegan food. We (vegans) just eat a little more of it."
