A new BBC poll reveals that many parents are out of touch with the potential dangers faced by children and teenagers on tablets and smartphones. 
 The online poll was commissioned by BBC Learning in support of Safer Internet Day and questioned more than 4,000 adults and children.
 The poll found that almost one in five children (19%) who used tablets or smartphones had been upset by something they'd seen on their devices in the last year. 
 	 15% of children say they have been upset by something they have seen when using a tablet in the last year. 6% of parents feel this is true of their child."
 Almost half of these were worried by sexual content or what the children described as 'rude things'. This is double the figure that parents thought - and the majority of children were using their tablets and smartphones alone. 
 Older teenagers aged 13-16 were more likely to be upset by negative content on smartphones than younger children aged 8-12 years. Girls were more likely to be upset than boys. 
 The older group said their parents were less likely to talk to them about online safety than the younger age-range. 
 The poll also highlighted positive aspects of tablet use. Children were leading the way as 60% helped their parents to use tablets. The majority of parents - 70% - also thought tablets developed creativity in children. 
 Tablets weren't only seen as a spark for innovation. They were viewed as a popular tool for learning as three quarters of children said they used their tablet for education. This was fourth on the list of tablet activities after playing games, watching videos and browsing online. 
 The poll illustrated how increasing numbers of parents were discussing online safety with their children. Nine out of ten parents said they had talked to their child about staying safe using a tablet or smartphone. 
 Two thousand parents and two thousand children who used such devices were interviewed online between Christmas and New Year. The poll was conducted online by Populus on behalf of BBC Learning in support of Safer Internet Day.
* The poll showed just over half of parents surveyed had a tablet in their home
 * 58% said their child owned a smartphone
 * Just over half of parents had set up filters or parental controls on the tablet their child used
 * Two in five parents had set up safety filters and controls on their child's smartphone
BBC Learning is co-ordinating a rich, engaging and wide range of output across BBC radio, television and online in support of Safer Internet Day. The content will promote safe and responsible use of the internet, including social networking sites. This is the third year in succession that Learning has been involved and the message for 2014 is 'Let's create a better internet together'.
 WebWise is the online home for BBC content throughout February. 
 EastEnders star Jacqueline Jossa fronts one of four short films commissioned by WebWise on internet safety. Jacqueline's film investigates webcam hacking (known as RATTING) and is accompanied by another on sexting, and two further films exploring family online safety. Plus there's a guide to find out what social networks know about you, authored by Get Safe Online's Tim Mitchell.
 Radio 4's You and Yours is devoting a whole week of programming to safer internet use, from Monday February 10th to Friday Feb 14th, including a live Call You &amp; Yours from Gateshead.
 Woman Hour's detective series Craven makes the leap into video with five specially commissioned films to run alongside the radio broadcast. Hosted on WebWise, these gritty dramas centre around the moving tale of one parent's struggle to make sense of his late daughter's online world.
 A joint broadcast - or simulcast - between Radio 5 live and Radio 1's Newsbeat is planned for February 11th, with Shelagh Fogarty and Chris Smith at 12.30pm.
 Other co-funded programming includes a Newsround Special for CBBC on cyberbullying, to be broadcast on the day. 
 Other BBC brands helping to spread the safer internet message include The One Show, BBC Breakfast, Radio 2 and BBC Local Radio. 
 Follow the hashtag #webwise on 11th February to join in the conversation on Twitter.
