These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively explore the life story of Edith Cavell and to find out more about the period during World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to conduct their own research using primary source material.
 Useful links
* Edith Cavell website dedicated to her life
 * Cavell Nurses' Trust
 Pupils could create a profile card about Edith Cavell. On this they could put key details of her life and death, and note what she is remembered for.
 Profile cards could be created for other famous figures from World War One, such as Wilfred Owen, Lord Kitchener and Sergeant Stubby. The class could be asked to compare the different roles they each played during the war and also explore the public's opinions of them, both at the time and after their deaths.
 The class could use information from the article to plot Edith's journeys on a sketch map of Europe, with notes to show when she lived at each place and arrows leading from one location to another.
 Can the pupils calculate the total distance Edith's travelled?
 Pupils could also be asked to look at Edith's country of origin (England) and explore the role that this country played during the war.
 Pupils could create a classroom exhibition about Edith's life. They might find out more about her from books and websites.
 The exhibition could include pupils' own portraits of her, as well as sketches of places she knew. They might make a bust or statue of Edith from modelling clay.
 Pupils could add to the display a small collection of objects to represent key moments in her life: a Bible, for instance, or perhaps a needle, thread and cushion, marking her attempt to hide her diary.
 Pupils could write a diary entry from Edith's perspective. You might prompt the children to write about why she became a nurse and why she wanted to help soldiers from all sides rather than just British Tommies. 
 Do the children think Edith's religious beliefs influenced her? This activity helps pupils tackle complex issues of patriotism and morality.
 Useful links
* Imperial War Museum's Edith Cavell collection online
 Pupils could search the web for extracts of Edith's letters. After reading some examples of her letters, pupils could write a reply. 
 They could do this in role (as a relative or a wounded soldier perhaps), or write Edith a 'letter from the future' to share their own feelings about her life story. 
 This activity helps pupils to appreciate Edith's significance in history and her personal contribution to nursing.
 The class might list all the qualities they think a hero should have. You could encourage the children to think of their favourite heroes and superheroes from stories, films and TV. The children could record their ideas on a mind map or a flowchart, using arrows, boxes, stars and circles to relate different ideas.
 You could ask if they think any of the attributes on their charts apply to Edith Cavell. Was she heroic? Encourage pupils to discuss the question in pairs or small groups. You might go on to pose further questions for them to consider, such as: 'Would she have still been a hero if she hadn't saved any lives?' and 'Did helping the Germans make her more or less of a hero?'
