* Post 
 * Telephones 
 * Newspapers 
 * Telegrams 
 * Posters 
 * Propaganda 
 * Communication 
 This picture summarises some of the different ways people communicated during World War One. See if you can spot the items listed below.
 Letters and postcards were a common way to keep in touch with friends and businesses. During the war, they brought news from home to loved ones overseas. Their replies were written carefully so as not to describe too gruesome a picture. 
 They were often changed by the government in order to stop vital information about the war from being seen by spies - this is called censorship.
 Each letter was treasured and read many times before the next arrived. 
 In the years before the war, country towns could expect as many as 12 deliveries a day. Sacks of letters were carried around the country by train. However, once the war started, fuel was scarce and deliveries dropped to one or two a day. 
 Until the last year of the war, posting a letter cost just a penny.
 Throughout the war, the telegraph machine tapped out messages many times a day. It was the fastest way to get important information to someone in the days before telephones were common. 
 The short and long taps of the Morse key travelled down the cable to the telegraph operator receiving the message at the other end of the line. Listening carefully, the taps were decoded into letters and words until the message was complete.
 Sending a telegram was very expensive compared to sending a letter. At 6d for every nine words including the address, people learnt to keep their telegraph messages brief. 
 Within minutes the message would be in a satchel and ready for urgent delivery.
 Telephones were still a new thing to most people at the start of the war. Offices and bigger shops used them but only wealthy people had one at home. 
 Every call was made by a telephone operator in an office called an exchange. Operators were almost always women. They sat at a wall of special plugs, connecting cables so people could talk to each other. 
 The telephone system in Britain was operated by the General Post Office.
 During the war, calls were made to raise the alarm when German airships or bombers were spotted. Calls were also possible to army officers at the front during the war. These calls were for Government and army use only. 
 Official letters and important documents were usually typed. They needed to be clear and easy to read. Typists used large, heavy machines and had to be very accurate as mistakes were hard to correct.
 Old typewriters did not need electricity and were quite noisy to use. Every tap made a metal bar bang against an inky ribbon, transferring a letter onto the paper. At the end of each line, the typist pulled the carriage return lever and the paper moved up ready for the next row of words. 
 Typewriters did not need to be fixed very often, but during the war, it was sometimes hard to get spare parts. Factories had stopped making typewriters so they could produce munitions.
 Local newspapers reported things that mattered to the community. It was an important way of passing on information about the war and the local regiments. 
 Stories of the brave soldiers were always welcome, but sad stories were just as important. When things did not go well, the newspapers printed the names of soldiers who had been killed in action.
 The papers were mostly filled with words. There were very few photographs, but there were advertisements for shops. 
 Food shortages were common and things were expensive, so people wanted to know about sales or special deliveries. 
 Every newspaper had to be careful not to print something that would help enemy spies. They were censored by the government, meaning that some stories were changed or removed.
 The government found that posters and notices were a useful way of quickly spreading information and also propaganda. They were put up on billboards in the street, as well as on public transport.
 They were used to recruit both women and men for the war effort, as well as to encourage people at home to be careful with how they used valuable resources like food and fuel. 
 Posters also helped to raise morale, helping people to stay positive and upbeat. 
 The posters and leaflets were so effective that by the end of the war, the government had set up a special central department called the Ministry of Information just to make and distribute then. It was also set up again for World War Two.
 At the start of the war, the Post Office was the biggest company in the world and had a huge number of people working for it. 
 When Lord Kitchener announced that many soldiers would be needed, lots of postal workers were keen to volunteer. By the end of 1914, 28,000 men from the company had gone to fight.
 Groups of friends or workmates often joined the army together. The Post Office had its own army battalion called The Post Office Rifles with 12,000 men. People who had been postmen, telegraph operators and delivery drivers became soldiers and fought together in France. 
 Over 1,800 men in the Post Office Rifles were killed in action.
 Teacher's notes and classroom ideas looking at communication 100 years ago.
