The word "fasting" triggers certain images - most of severe self-discipline and deprivation: Jesus's 40 days in the desert; political hunger strikes; religious fasts.
 On Tuesday, observant Jewish people began fasting for Yom Kippur, a 25-hour dry fast - with no food or liquid - also known as the Day of Atonement. Similar expressions of self-control are important in many religions, but fasting is becoming increasingly popular, even fashionable, among secular people.
 Just a cursory search of the internet uncovers hundreds of companies offering "fasting retreats", sometimes in exotic locations. So why is there an appetite to pay premium prices to feel hungry?
 A health challenge?
 Stacey Siebritz, 27, is a health and fitness writer based in London. She was teaching English in South Korea when she began "looking after her health more" and thought attending one such fasting retreat sounded like a great challenge.
 Religions and fasting
* Read more about Yom Kippur, the most solemn day of the Jewish year
 * Find out why Mormon communities fast every month
 * Discover why Bahá'ís practise fasting as a discipline for the soul
 * Learn how followers of Jainism use fasting to prepare for death
 "We stayed in a studio in the middle of the mountains, with absolutely no distractions. It was very beautiful," she says.
 "Three monks led the experience. In the morning we did some yoga and were explained what the fasting would involve. 
 "The last meal we had was a vegetarian stew, and the following morning we had an ayurvedic drink made of water, lemon and a herbal powder."
 The duration of fasts vary. Some retreats offer weekend breaks; others have more ambitious goals, with legendary tales of participants dry fasting for up to 30 days. 
 Ms Siebritz and her group did not eat from the Friday night to Sunday morning, with no liquid from Saturday morning.
 One important aspect of fasting is the discomfort caused by the conscious abstinence from food. By making themselves hungry, the faithful mourn, atone, or simply purify themselves to feel closer to God. Likewise, by refusing to eat, protesters draw attention to their cause.
 So how does it feel to fast for the sake of fasting?
 "I was surprised during the fast. It wasn't so much the hunger or thirst, I just felt lethargic," adds Ms Siebritz.
 But this new generation of secular fasters can still appreciate the spiritual benefits of this practice.
 Can fasting turn into an eating disorder?
 Mary George, from Beat - previously known as the Eating Disorders Association - treats fasting and fad diets with caution.
 "We wouldn't encourage any of these practices and, although they're not eating disorders, taken to extremes they could certainly be one of the often many contributory factors to developing an eating disorder," she said.
 The obsession with eating healthily has been named orthorexia. 
 "Orthorexia is when someone develops an obsession with what types of food they are putting into their body," she added.
 "Cases of orthorexia probably have increased and, because we are bombarded with messages around healthy eating, more people are exhibiting this type of eating behaviour."
 "It's difficult putting it into words. You become more introspective - you're forced to be," adds Ms Siebritz, who is currently preparing for a race and has recently completed a 48-hour juice fast.
 "There was this moment, after spending all day fasting, when I realised how powerful it all was. 
 "There was a meditation class on and we were invited to watch. We could join in but I had no energy, so I just observed. There was an amazing energy in the air, a real sense of community.
 "Religion and spirituality get such a bad rep, but it was such a beautiful moment, something you don't get to experience in every day life.
 "You get back your appreciation for food. Our first breakfast after the fast was the most amazing I've ever had."
 If, as Ms Siebritz believes, one of the byproducts of this modern approach to fasting is to regain consciousness and appreciate what we have more, there is certainly an analogy with mainstream religious fasts.
 Fasting and almsgiving go hand in hand during Lent, and one of the points of Ramadan is to understand the suffering of the less fortunate.
 Spiritual benefits aside, fasting has joined raw food diets, juice fasts and extreme detox periods, often complete with physical practices such as colon cleansing, in the hearts of the trendy, health conscious crowd. 
 The little girl who would not eat
 Extreme and prolonged fasting was almost a trademark of medieval female saints, as in the famous case of St Catherine of Siena, the patron saint of Italy, who would only eat a handful of herbs every day.
 In Victorian times, young girls who refused to consume food and claimed to have religious powers were known as fasting girls. 
 Welsh 12-year-old Sarah Jacobs, it is claimed, did not eat any food from 1867 to 1869. Visitors flocked from all over the region to witness what was deemed to be a miracle by the local community. 
 Wanting to monitor her closely, a group of doctors decided Sarah should be hospitalised and nurses should not feed her, unless she specifically asked, no matter how poorly she looked.
 Sarah eventually died of starvation in 1869.
 Intermittent fasting - the alternation of fasting and non-fasting days - has become quite popular, with many advocating it as an excellent way to lose weight and delay ageing.
 According to Google, searches for the terms "intermittent fasting" in the UK are nine times higher than they were this time last year.
 Supermarket chains, tapping into the trend, now offer "superfoods" salads, using a terminology that speaks directly to those in the know. But how do nutritionists feel about the trend?
 Naturopatic Nutritional Therapist Fran Stockley explains: "Fasting is perfectly healthy, but potential fasters should always contact a nutritionist or, even better, a GP before embarking on a fast."
 When done for the sole purpose of losing weight, fasting can "spiral into addiction", adds Ms Stockley, who recommends fasting only in periods of physical and mental stability, and preferably in a controlled environment.
 "Everyone is different, so the most important thing is listening to your body," she adds. "Even when attending a fasting retreat with other people, it's important to stop fasting immediately if it doesn't feel right."
 Sue Baic, of the British Dietetic Association, is more cautious.
 "There has been some debate recently that this 'new' way of eating can offer major health benefits, however there simply isn't the evidence to back this up," she says.
 "Fasting could potentially be unsafe in some individuals without medical supervision or lead to the development of poor eating patterns. 
 "Dieticians would always recommend a well-planned, healthy diet in the first instance for health and longevity."
