The following suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine and investigate the types of food and drink children would have had during World War One. 
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Extract from 'The Wind in the Willows' by Kenneth Grahame
 'There's cold chicken inside it,' replied the Rat briefly; 'coldtonguecoldhamcoldbeefpickledgherkinssaladfren chrollscresssandwichespottedmeatgingerbeerlemonad esodawater—'
 Kenneth Grahame's 'The Wind in the Willows' (1908) might be a good source to use. You could read Ratty's description of the picnic hamper to the class. Explain that this book was written not long before the war and was one that children in a World War One family might have read or had read to them.
 The class could think about what Ratty's picnic tells us about the food people ate in the early 1900s. Do they think that everybody ate this well? What might poorer families have eaten? 
 You could pick other books from the pre-1914 period and ask pupils to skim-read them, noting down any references to food. Groups of children might search separate chapters and compile a single class list.
 Useful links
* Google books: Ngram Viewer
 Book suggestions: E. Nesbit books, 'Peter Pan' (J.M. Barrie), Beatrix Potter, 'The Secret Garden' by Frances Hodgson Burnett. 
 Useful links
* The National Archives: School dinners guided activities
 School meals were first offered in 1907, so by the time the war came many children had got used to them. Children could use the National Archives to find out more about school dinners of the period. 
 The class could discuss why school dinners were introduced. Why would they have been important to families during World War One? 
 Children might go on to make a wartime cookery book. They could sample a dish from a typical school dinner menu of the period, such as pea soup, toad-in-the-hole, tapioca or 'bread baked in dripping'. Pupils could consider how these school dinners compare to our own.  What similarities and differences can they spot - and which would they most or least like to eat?
 Comparing prices is not easy. Many people's wages in 1914 were under £2 a week. Some estimates suggest a 1914 pound was worth at least £50 today.
 You might ask the class to compare a 1914 shopping list with a till roll from a typical family supermarket shop today. Which foods on the 2014 list would the 1914 family have not been able to buy - or perhaps even known what they were? Ask the children to try converting prices from 2014 money into 1914 money (£1 = 20 shillings= 240 old pennies).
 Food prices rose sharply during the war. The price of an average basket of food increased by around 130%. See if children can work out what a shopping bill of £1 would have cost given such a price rise. Then try the same calculation with items from a 2014 shopping bill. 
 The daily rations for a British soldier or 'Tommy' at the Front included 20 oz [ounces] of bread or 4 oz of oatmeal, 3 oz of cheese, 4 oz of jam, ⅝ oz of tea, 8 oz of fresh vegetables and 4 oz of butter. Soldiers were issued with ½ gill of rum and they might get ⅓ oz of chocolate, if they were lucky.
 Children could measure out the official daily rations of a soldier at the front to see how much this food allowance looks like. (Substitute cold tea for the rum!) 
 Ask: 'How many meals do you think you could make from the rations you've measured out? How healthy do you think this food ration is?' and 'Are there any types of food that you think are missing? ' Ask the children to give reasons for their opinions. 
 This is a good opportunity to find out about imperial measures and compare them to metric. Children can also investigate what constitutes a healthy meal.
