John Cleese is marking 50 years in show business by inviting friends and fellow comics to hurl insults at him at a charity event, in the tradition of the American celebrity roast.
 "We're all thinking how sad it is that a man of such talent, of such capability for kindness, of such unusual intelligence, should now so suddenly be spirited away".
 "Well, I feel that I should say: nonsense. Good riddance to him, I hope he fries. The reason I feel I should say this is he would never forgive me if I didn't, if I threw away this glorious opportunity to shock you all on his behalf. Anything for him, but mindless good taste."
 Cleese's sentiment that his friend should "fry" for his failings was perfectly Python - an absurdly funny clash of situation and tone, mockery of religious solemnity and reflection of the affection and creative tension that characterised the group's career. 
 Despite the quintessentially British humour, he and his fellow Pythons' backhanded tributes to Chapman arguably owed more to the American institution of comedy roasts, where a famous figure is publicly insulted by friends and fellow celebrities as a measure of the regard they're held in.
 Now it's Cleese's turn to suffer. As the five surviving Pythons reunite for a stage show, the four-times married comedy legend will be roasted at a charity benefit by guests including Michael Palin and Eric Idle.
 So what is the appeal of being insulted at the hands of your friends? And why has this US tradition never found a mainstream audience in Britain?
 Cleese's event for the NSPCC is being held at Mosimann's, a private dining club in London. The setting lends itself to the early origins of the roast.
 Roasts began in the 1920s at the exclusive Friars Club in New York. They became an opportunity for variety stalwarts such as Milton Berle, Jack Benny and Don Rickles to pay vicious homage to each other in private, even as the hugely popular Dean Martin Celebrity Roasts on television brought a sanitised version to the wider public's attention in the 1970s. 
 More recently, Comedy Central has kept the tradition alive by broadcasting roasts of such show business luminaries as William Shatner, Pamela Anderson, Joan Rivers, David Hasselhoff, Donald Trump, Roseanne Barr and James Franco.
 US comedian Bill Burr has always turned down requests to participate in these televised shows. But behind closed doors, he made exceptions for close friends and fellow stand-ups like Patrice O'Neal.
 "Roasts used to be your friends, they knew everything and they loved you. So all the horrible stuff, they knew you didn't really mean it" he recalls. "When it was just us, never recorded, I can't tell you how much fun it was."
 As well as the guest of honour, roasters are encouraged to insult each other.
 Sadly, Burr reflects, "so many of the ones I get asked to do, I don't know [the roastees] at all. Am I supposed to make fun of their movies when I haven't achieved half of what they've achieved? They're a public figure yet they barely know anything about me. It's not fair. I can't go out and trash Charlie Sheen. Hell, I'm rooting for him!"
 The Friars Club motto "has always been 'we only roast the ones we love'" explains the club's director of communications and roast head writer Barry Dougherty. "And as silly as that can sound after obliterating someone's self-esteem and destroying their ego for three hours, it's an intimate form of affection."
 Still, roastees "need a tough hide and an excellent sense of humour. They need to appreciate what's coming."
 Dougherty's favourite was actor Kelsey Grammer's, featuring his Frasier co-star David Hyde Pierce as roastmaster.
 The Friars Club event was temporarily postponed after Grammer crashed his car and checked into the Betty Ford Clinic. Hyde Pierce belatedly introduced it by saying "Hi, my name is Kelsey Grammer and I'm an alcoholic. Oh sorry, I got my cards mixed up with Kelsey's."
 Although it's been 30 years since the Pythons last officially worked together, on the Meaning of Life film, Ed Byrne reckons they share the requisite history and comic "mastery" to make the John Cleese roast compelling. 
 But the Irish stand-up also suspects that British roasts are generally doomed to disappoint.
 He argues that Channel 4's attempt to import the format in 2010 with Bruce Forsyth, Sharon Osbourne, Chris Tarrant and Davina McCall as roastees failed, because "you could tell the difference between those who were there because they knew the person being roasted and comics who were just there to make a name for themselves."
 Byrne took part in McCall's roast, after the two appeared alongside each other in the critically panned sitcom Sam's Game. He feels that ignorance of the no-holds barred, "wraps off" atmosphere led to confusion about how vicious they could be. "They were giving us notes beforehand saying 'we don't want to be as nasty as the American ones, it's a bit more best man's speech than that, a bit more jovial'. 
* Frank Sinatra, 1978 - In front of America's most eminent showbusiness celebrities on The Dean Martin Roast, Don Rickles kissed Sinatra full on the lips. Sinatra earned his nickname "The Chairman of the Board" from his role as roastmaster or "Abbot" at The Friars Club.
 * Whoopi Goldberg, 1993 - Ted Danson was dating Goldberg when he arrived at her Friars Club Roast in blackface and performed a raunchy, racially charged routine written by Goldberg that offended many in attendance. 
 * Hugh Hefner, 2001 - At Hefner's roast, Gilbert Gottfried lost the crowd with a poorly received joke about 9/11 but won them round with his version of the famously filthy, vaudevillian Aristocrats routine. The incident featured in the 2005 documentary The Aristocrats.
 * Pamela Anderson, 2005 - Former Golden Girl Bea Arthur embarrassed Pamela Anderson by reciting a passage from the Baywatch actress' explicit novel Star Struck.
 * George W. Bush, 2006 - Comedian Stephen Colbert savagely "roasted" US President George W. Bush at the White House Correspondents' Association Dinner, drawing flak from politicians and some quarters of the media but also widespread admiration for his wit and bravery.
 "I did a couple of jokes about other people on the stage that I thought were good and they just bombed and got cut out. And I put it down to the audience being shocked, they weren't expecting it to be that way. They just thought we were being mean."
 American comedian Rich Hall took had taken aim at Channel 4's Big Brother, which Davina was then presenting for the last time. As Byrne says, "I remember some of the Big Brother contestants were giving Rich Hall daggers when they came out for having the temerity to say rude things about the show."
 The producers' caution may have been justified though. Initial press coverage of the roasts focused on insults exchanged between Forsyth and fellow broadcaster Jonathan Ross, with little mention of the context.
 Dougherty wonders if the British roastees felt the protective circle of trust enjoyed by their American counterparts. In the US, the guest of honour "knows they're not going to go too deep, just enough for the laugh and to make them feel a little nervous. They're comfortable knowing it isn't going to become something where they never speak again."
 Indeed, so established are the unspoken boundaries that Dougherty claims a roast can even heal rifts between celebrities, pointing to Hollywood star Tom Cruise's attendance of journalist Matt Lauer's roast, which ended bad blood between them. 
 Furthermore, he suggests, with a celebrated insult comic like Don Rickles, who roasted Ronald Reagan when he was Governor of California, "many people would line up to be insulted by him. Whereas they wouldn't necessarily be willing to be insulted by a lesser comic".
 John Cleese's Comedy Roast is on Sunday 24 November 2013.
