More history from the BBC
* Dazzling designs 
 * Teenage soldiers 
 * The song that kept Britain singing 
 * Oh What a Lovely War! 
 In the 1960s Aberdeen's population had fallen, there was high unemployment and the economy of the city relied on traditional industries such as farming, fishing and textiles.
 But when North Sea oil fields were discovered off the east coast of Scotland in December 1969, the fortunes of the city and its residents were changed irrevocably.
 The drive for exploration and extraction of 'black gold' brought numerous foreign companies, their employees and families to north-east Scotland. 
 The oil industry brought great wealth to the city and to those who worked in the business, but its many excesses left residents who were not employed in the sector struggling with the cost of living. 
 The majority of workers arriving in the city were from the southern states of America. They had the knowledge and technical expertise required in oil exploration and as Anne Dunderdale, Chair of the Petroleum Women's Club of Scotland recalls, they were unlike anything Aberdeen had previously seen.
 "In the early years, we had Americans who were as if they had rolled off their ranch in Texas; the legs were just as if they had left the horse behind them! 
 "I had a friend who wore spurs on their cowboy boots. One lady had a white leather stetson and she wore it to everything. The way we got up and put on our shoes, she got up and put on her white stetson."
 	"
 It was such a shock to come from Houston or Louisiana to end up in Aberdeen in January"
 As workers flooded into the north-east of Scotland, the benefits to the local economy soon became apparent.
 Hotelier Stewart Spence recalls a "most unbelievable experience" with a Texan businessman in the early 1970s.
 "I remember walking through to the reception desk and I saw this man dressed head to toe in denim, cowboy boots and a stetson hat. 
 "He said, 'I'm wanting to book some rooms. I would like to book 20 of them.' I said, 'what night do you have in mind?' He said, 'next month for six months'."
 Businesses began adapting to the requirements of the oilmen, as Spence discovered when he bought Aberdeen's Belvidere hotel.
 "The first week I took over I saw two cases of Dom Perignon being delivered", he says. "I went to the manageress and I said, 'there must be some mistake. Do they mean two bottles?' 'No, no', she said, 'two cases. We need that every Friday night'.
 "[The oil workers] used to drink Dom Perignon out of pint mugs on a Friday night. It was crazy, I'd never seen anything like it."
 Anne Dunderdale remembers the American women who had a fondness for silver fox fur jackets.
 "It was such a shock to come from Houston or Louisiana to end up in Aberdeen in January. They really felt that they were gone to the Eskimo country and they needed to dress accordingly."
 While Britain in the 1970s faced rising unemployment, striking workers and the three-day week, Aberdeen forged ahead offering employment and opportunities for a decent wage.
 The impact of the oil industry
 "The oil industry attracted people to work for it from other non-oil industries like paper manufacturing, textiles and fish processing," says Alex Kemp, Professor of Petroleum Economics at the University of Aberdeen.
 "That did cause a problem of course for the non-oil sector… industries couldn't compete very well with an oil industry which was buoyed up because the price of oil had gone up by over 400%.
 In a bid to control increasing inflation the government and the Trades Union Congress had agreed that pay rises should be set to government approved limits. But this Prices and Incomes policy stymied traditional businesses in Aberdeen.
 "The oil-related companies could pay the market rate but the non-oil-related companies were constrained," says Professor Kemp. "Not only because the economics of their industries weren't so robust, but because of the Prices and Incomes policy that prevented salary increases being given to compete with new industry."
 For those living in Aberdeen but not working in the oil industry, living standards were beginning to slip.
 "In the 70s and perhaps even now, those of us whose salaries are in no way related to the oil sector find the cost of living much higher and we don't get compensation in higher wages, " says Professor Kemp.
 The success of the oil industry had a knock-on effect on the local housing market. Incoming workers required homes to live in but as Tony Dawson, senior partner at solicitors James &amp; George Collie recalls, demand far outstripped supply.
 	"
 They used to drink Dom Perignon out of pint mugs on a Friday night"
 "In those days a flat in Aberdeen that was being put up for sale maybe had 10 to 12 offers at a closing date. That's never been repeated." 
 Dawson remembers the heyday of the property market in Aberdeen in the late 1970s: "I was buying new houses for clients … several every day, maybe 15 a week. It was incredible. 
 "And the prices just kept going up on a month-to-month basis from the builders. They kept on increasing their prices and people paid," he says. 
 As the boom continued into the 1980s the market remained buoyant, but at a cost.
 "I remember in the '80s [acting for] some unfortunates bidding way over the price and maybe having to do that 15 or 20 times to get them a house. It was becoming ridiculous and it was unique in the UK to have to do that.
 "A house in Rubislaw Den (in the city's west end) in the 1980s went for £500,000 over the asking price. But that was excessive and unusual," he said. 
 Local businesses in Aberdeen adapted to the new prosperous conditions.
 "In the 70s the new [restaurants] were always aimed at the top end of the market, really looking for people with expense accounts, more than the locals on a non-oil salary", says Professor Kemp.
 Stewart Spence remembers the expensive tastes of people in the oil industry. 
 "These people would come in for lunch. They probably didn't know about wine, all they looked at was the most expensive wine on the list and they would order that. People didn't realise the amount of money they were earning in those days."
 Linda MacPhee worked in harbour bar Crazy Daisy's. "There was a very strong culture of drinking," she says. "The guys would come back onshore and they would head straight for the pub.
 "It was a hard, hard life. Horrible conditions offshore, very scary, very tough. It could be well understood why they needed to have a drink and have some downtime after being offshore but it got out of hand.
 "I know that a lot of the wives had great difficulty… there was no real family life because the husbands were in the pub drinking. It caused a lot of strife and anger and upset amongst the families." 
 Anne Dunderdale explains, "There were tight alcohol checks on the rigs. You didn't go offshore if you were drunk. 
 "Most wives would have said the first night and the last night [of their husbands time onshore] were theirs. The last night so that they were really sober when they were going off and the first night because you hadn't seen them for a fortnight," she says.
 The city's prosperous roll came to a crashing halt in 1986 when the oil price fell to below $10 a barrel. 
 "It took the industry pretty well by surprise," says Professor Kemp. "Nobody expected the severity of the price fall. The effect on the Aberdeen economy was really quite dramatic."
 "The city emptied overnight," says Stewart Spence. "All the Americans got sent home." 
 Representatives from the Aberdeen Hotels Association met with the Director of Tourism for Aberdeen, says Mr Spence. 
 "I said, 'The hotels have emptied because of the oil crash and we want to know where the tourists are'. He looked at us and said, 'Do you know what you have told the tourists for the past 15 years? You have told them to politely get lost because you were so busy with the oil business you didn't want to know about them.'"
 The crash seriously affected the housing market, as Tony Dawson recalls.
 "I do remember many instances of people handing back the keys of their house to the building society and departing. That was very, very sad."
 	"
 It was a hard, hard life. Horrible conditions offshore, very scary, very tough."
It is over 40 years since oil was discovered in the North Sea, but the energy industries continue to be an important element of the economy of the north-east. 
 Professor Kemp estimates that over 25% of people living in Aberdeen and Aberdeenshire are employed in businesses relating to the industry.
 The energy sector continues to attract workers to the area but these days local companies also export their knowledge and expertise around the globe. 
 Professor Kemp is optimistic about the future. "According to my forecasts the industry will be with us for quite a long time. At the moment we've got record investment. Oil &amp; Gas UK have estimated that investment in new fields this year will be over £13bn. 
 "The Clair field will last beyond 2050. We've got plenty of time to adjust to many years ahead when the industry does go down."
 The city continues to thrive but while the excitement of the boom days have long gone they are fondly remembered. 
 Retired journalist Anne Flann believes the boom helped erase lingering post-war gloom in north-east Scotland.
 "When the Americans came they brought back a sense of fun and liveliness and I think it did Aberdeen a lot of good." 
 Find out more about oil's impact on Aberdeen on Our Story, broadcast on Monday 22 July at 13:30 on BBC Radio Scotland. The programme will available on the BBC iPlayer after.
