These suggestions provide ways for pupils to imagine and investigate the lives of women who went to war during World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Useful links
* British Pathé newsreels: World War One Life on the Home Front
 Pupils could view some short clips of newsreel from the war years that show women at war. The online British Pathé collection has short clips that are free to view.
 Newsreels of the period were silent. You could ask groups of pupils to choose a clip and script a commentary to accompany it. Groups could then play their film clips to the class and read out their commentaries.
 Useful links
* National Army Museum: WAACs at War
 Among other duties, members of the WAAC provided the most nourishing meals they could for British troops. You could challenge pupils to design menus that would be practical to deliver from a field kitchen with effectively little more than a fire or barbecue to cook on. 
 The children should aim to provide meals that are varied, balanced and healthy. The recipes they choose should use foodstuffs that are easy to transport and that do not require refrigeration. The children should also have regard to rationing and look for meal ideas that use as little fat, sugar and meat as possible. 
 The class could share recipe ideas and together agree a week's menu for a platoon of 30 men. Can they estimate and calculate the quantities of food they will need to feed their platoon?
 Useful links
* BBC Food: Plum duff
 Food was never wasted in wartime. WAACs were told to soak stale bread then pop it into a warm oven for a short time to restore it to freshness. Pupils could experiment with pieces of dry bread. Does re-baking work?
 Pupils could go on to try out one of the treats WAACs provided in their field kitchens for the hungry Tommies. Follow the link for a recipe for plum duff.
 Pupils could try a simpler 'Milk Biscuit Pudding': stir together 3 cups of biscuit crumbs (pre-soaked in water for an hour), half a cup of sugar and half a cup of currants. Add a little candied peel, a sprinkle of cinnamon and half a cup of tinned milk. Mix well and place in a large, buttered baking dish. Bake in a moderate oven for around an hour. 
 What would a woman from 1914 make of today's world? You could ask pairs of pupils to script a short science fiction play in which Emily, a woman from the war years, is transported 100 years into the future. How will she react? What will she do? What will she want to know?
 As well as looking at changes in technology, encourage pupils to think about Emily's reaction to social changes. Does she have more freedom now than she would have enjoyed in 1914? What does she think about having the right to vote? How would she react to news that a significant number of adults do not vote at all, even though they have the right? How would she react to seeing so many women in the workplace?
 After rehearsal, the children could perform their scripts for their class or for a school assembly.
 Useful links
* The Red Cross: Life. Live it
 Women of the VAD worked as nurses, helping wounded soldiers. The VAD movement was founded in 1909 with support from the Red Cross and the Order of St John. Most VADs worked in hospitals in Britain but, as the war continued, increasingly they were sent to military hospitals overseas. Their training was basic but equipped them to administer first aid.
 Pupils could learn simple first aid techniques to gain an idea of the work of a VAD. The Red Cross provides an online resource, 'Life. Live It', introducing first aid education for five to eleven year olds. It features simple videos, illustrating what to do in emergency situations. After viewing them, you could hold a workshop for children to practise first aid skills such as how to put someone in the recovery position, how to help someone who is choking, how to reduce bleeding and how to check for a broken bone.
 Marie Curie was the first woman to win the Nobel Prize. Her work on radium was put to good use on the battlefields, as she came up with the idea of special vans equipped with mobile x-ray units which could reach the battlefields.
 You could find a simple biography of Marie Curie to use as a reading investigation for children in upper Key Stage Two. You could ask the children to look for specific details in Marie Curie's life and fill in an identity card for her. This would include place and date of birth, nationality, hair and eye colour and profession. 
 Ask the children to think about nurses taking care of a French, German or Italian soldier. How would the solider feel if she spoke to him in his or language? What phrases do you think she would need to learn? A discussion should lead to consideration of why it might be a good thing to speak a foreign language. You could introduce or revise parts of the body in a context relating directly to the war. 
 Useful links
* BBC Primary History - Famous People: 
* Walter Tull: video clip
 Pupils could use the links to find out about the lives of three famous women who worked supporting British troops in war zones. Pupils could use the information as a starting point to develop their own short documentaries with the title 'Women At War'.
 Encourage pupils to use a range of documentary techniques. They could compile images and captions or a voice-over with quotations from Edith Cavell's letters. They could shoot a vox pop to gauge contemporary opinions about nurses in a war zone or interview a nurse about the influence of Florence Nightingale on modern nursing. They could stage a 'talking heads' re-enactment of Edith Cavell's life in the style of the 'Walter Tull' video clip.
 Pupils could add music and digital effects to their documentaries and polish the finished result using video editing software.
