More from Food
* Food myth 
 * Supermarket struggles 
 * Sit down dinners 
 * What is bunny chow? 
 Crispy pigs' tails and other types of offal are appearing on gastropub menus, suggesting that people are becoming more adventurous when it comes to texture. But is there another level of food texture to discover in the UK?
 Slithery, slimy, bouncy, crunchy, squelchy, gristly, gloopy. Certainly not words often used to whet the appetite, at least not on British menus. 
 The most sought-after food textures in the UK, the enticing words that appear in Michelin-starred restaurant menus, TV chef's recipes or multi-national products are silky, smooth, unctuous, creamy or tender.
 Apart from crispy foods like crackling, British consumers have been persuaded to turn their backs on textured foods, and instead embrace softer-feeling food.
 But a preference for smooth foods has not always been a given. 
 In Victorian cookery books, whole birds and the feet of animals were celebrated with relish, while in other parts of the world, such as China, foods enjoyed purely for their challenging textural pleasure are highly prized. 
 Tantalising textures:
 Chinese food expert, author of Shark's Fin and Sichuan Pepper and BBC journalist Fuchsia Dunlop says texture is at the heart of enjoying Chinese food. 
 "In China you get the kind of nose to tail eating that puts Fergus Henderson at St John's restaurant to shame," she says. 
 She says texture is the "last frontier for Westerners learning to appreciate Chinese food".
 Gristly, gelatinous, bony textures, say in pig's ears or bird's feet, are shunned in the UK. 
 Many of the UK's unpopular pork cuts, such as offal or trotters are exported to China in large quantities. In May 2012 a £50m trade deal was agreed to export British pork to China.
 In China, kou gan (meaning "mouth-feel") is highly celebrated. 
 Goose intestines, sea cucumbers, chickens' feet and ducks' tongues are just some of the fiddly, gelatinous, gristly dishes that are regarded as delicacies. 
 Texture in these dishes means everything.
 "There's no equivalent to eating rubbery or slithery things in European cooking, which (in China) are deliberately cleansed of all innate flavour before they're dressed up in soups and sauces. This just doesn't make any sense unless you enjoy the texture," says Fuchsia Dunlop.
 Industrialised, processed food is often marketed as soft and creamy in the UK, with adverts for such foods playing on the sensual and comfort associations that have set in from a young age. 
 Our childhood association with pureed food is one of the reasons we turn to soups when we are ill.
 Children develop texture predilections from their first encounters with food, preferring crunchy, juicy or tender textures over stringy, gummy or slimy foods. 
 Tricky textures:
* Chicken or duck feet are fiddly to eat with not much return in meat. What meat you do find is mainly skin and is therefore gelatinous; the remainder is crunchy cartilage and bone.
 * Sea cucumber is a sea animal with a slippery texture that can be eaten fresh or dried. It is considered a delicacy in many cultures in Southeast Asia and China. 
 * Shark's fin is used in Chinese soup to provide a rubbery texture. Shark's fin soup has come under much scrutiny due to environmental and animal welfare concerns. 
 * Balut are duck eggs that have been incubated so that they are made up of embryo, feathers and crunchy bones. Eaten in The Philippines, they are boiled and eaten out of the shell. 
 * Natto has a slimy texture and smell of pungent cheese, making this Japanese breakfast dish of fermented soybeans an acquired taste.
 * Pigs' ears can be found in the cuisines of many countries, from Bulgaria, to China, to the soul food of the US South. They combine a gelatinous and a crunchy (cartilage) texture. 
 Research into the texture preferences of 12-month-old children has shown how important it is to vary texture to help develop childrens' palates. 
 Could there be other factors at play that stop us from embracing chickens' feet or other such foods?
 Dominique Valentin from Dijon's Le Centre des Sciences du Gout (The European Centre for Taste Sciences) has analysed the effects of culture on food perception. 
 "People do not simply eat what is available. They eat what they consider to be edible. What we eat and how we prepare it reflects our individual cultural heritage. When we talk about liking food it's about the sensation, but also the association," she explains. 
 "There is a strong link between familiarity and liking. This is linked to neophobia, the fear of novelty and unwillingness to try new things," she says.
 These preferences come down to a combination of beliefs and attitudes that are culturally transmitted. 
 For instance, some people think insects are gross, creepy or disgusting which then stops them from eating insects.
 The research on food texture is patchy, perhaps due to the subjectivity in perception. 
 Dominique Valentin says: "There's not much science on whether we have disgust for specific textures. We know that young kids don't like to have textured food at the beginning."
 But Professor Peter Barham, from Bristol University's School of Physics has studied the many factors affecting perception of flavour and texture. 
 He has worked with chefs such as Heston Blumenthal to develop recipes rooted in the scientific, molecular properties of food, and says there are surprising factors that can affect the texture of food. 
 For example, what people touch affects how they perceive texture. 
 "Try eating a creamy food, such as yoghurt and note how creamy you think it is. Take a second spoonful while stroking a smooth silky surface - it will probably seem creamier. Take a third spoonful while rubbing your hand with sandpaper - the food will probably seem a little gritty," he suggests.
 As food processing develops and it becomes easier and quicker to produce smooth textured foods that are less challenging to eat, perhaps it becomes easier to eat more of these foods.
 Fuchsia Dunlop says the modern British world seems to favour the smooth and tender, including cuts of meat. 
 "Is going towards dumbed-down, infantile textures a sign of development? They're easier and cheaper to produce - say taking slurry from meat and turning it into burgers.
 "My grandparent's generation ate more offal. Now the ideal, for many people, is a steak or a chicken breast, without any obstruction. So that's a social change." 
 Food historian Ivan Day points out that foods with a gelatinous, glutinous texture were more popular in the past. 
 Dishes like pigs' trotters, calves' head and fromage de tete (brawn) were enjoyed by our ancestors, foods with a "thick, slightly rubbery, chewy, jelly feel". 
 What is rheology? 
* Food rheology is the study of a food's texture, or how it deforms or flows. Understanding the rheological properties of food and drink products is crucial for developing food products and extending shelf-life
 * Equipment such as viscometers (to measure the viscosity of liquids), rheometers (used to measure the way a liquid flows) and texture analysers (which can measure qualities such as chewiness) are used by scientists to study the properties of food
 Even in the East End 30 or 40 years ago, there was still a taste for jellied eel. He says: "our tastes have been dictated by mass produced foods. A squeamishness has developed as we've been removed from the production of our food."
 However, even though European cuisine is not as focussed on texture as Chinese food, the texture needs to be perceived as right. 
 "Mostly when people in France talk about texture it's in a negative way, to complain about it. You don't often hear it [talked about] in an approving way," says Dominique Valentin.
 Andy Taylor, formerly of The University of Nottingham and who is now working in the food industry, has experimented with changing the texture of a standard meal. 
 He blended and re-formed a meal of fish and chips. The flavour was the same, but he removed its visual and textural properties. 
 The meal was (not surprisingly) perceived as inferior by those testing it.
 Despite our disgust for textures perceived as "wrong", there are perhaps signs that we're embracing more interesting food textures in the UK. 
 Chef Fergus Henderson's "nose-to-tail" eating, including pigs' tails and bone marrow salad, kick-started the trend towards serving offal in many UK gastropubs.
 However Fuchsia Dunlop suggests that it is not pure texture that appeals in such dishes.
 "Now you get the more adventurous eaters wanting to eat offal, tripe, chitterlings and pigs' tails and ears. 
 "But I wouldn't say people in 'the West' eat them for textural pleasure at all. I just don't think that occurs to people."
