* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 The following teachers' notes provide ways for pupils to reflect on the 2014 centenary of World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material and to conduct their own research.
 We live in a global economy with different threats. There is less danger perhaps of a world war on the scale of 1914 or 1939 and most of us feel we live in a peaceful country. Yet we face the dangers of terrorism and soldiers still risk their lives in wars and peacekeeping missions. 
 Can war be avoided?
 Introduce the topic of World War One using BBC Schools resources. You could put the war in its historical context by making a timeline that shows the two world wars and events that happened before and after them. Take the line right up to the present day. Explain that World War One happened 100 years ago. When we reach such an important anniversary, it is time to look back and try to make sense of what happened.
 Many people visit World War One battlefields and war museums. Ask students what can be learned from such visits. Some people talk about 'learning the lessons of the past' but what does that mean in practice?
 Useful links
 Students may have visited the Imperial War Museum or another military museum. How did they react? Why do we have war museums? How do students feel about peace museums such as Bradford's Peace Museum UK?
 Students could research into active peace organisations such as the Peace Pledge Union which was set up in the 1930s and tried to popularise the wearing of white 'peace poppies'. 
 Useful links 
 Students may wish to compare the Peace Pledge Union's ideals with those of the Royal British Legion, the organisation which sells red poppies for remembrance.
 The students could find out more about the League of Nations and its aims. How does it compare with the United Nations, set up after World War Two? What do students think are the strengths and weaknesses of the UN? How might it be improved?
 You could suggest that students look at youth protests in the peace movement. For example: the CND campaign against nuclear weapons in the 1950s; the anti-Vietnam war protests of the 1960s; the women of Greenham Common in the 1980s and the anti-Iraq war protests of the 2000s.
 Members of the Society of Friends (Quakers) were prominent anti-war voices during the 1914 - 1918 conflict. They believed it was wrong to fight wars and kill people. Many other religious believers were also taught that killing was wrong but were prepared to fight in a 'just war'. During World War One, Quakers were prepared to face danger as ambulance crews, helping wounded soldiers at the front. For this they and other conscientious objectors were admired. However some conscientious objectors were abused as cowards and had a rough time. Hundreds more went to jail. 
 Conscientious objectors had to appear before tribunals to argue their case against going to war. You could ask students to write the defence these conscientious objectors might have used. Students could go on to write the counter-arguments that might have been made in court against them. The class could also discuss what they think would have happened to the UK if no one had been prepared to fight.
 The class might stage a role-play courtroom confrontation to explore the opposing views and arguments. 
 Students could find out more about the Society of Friends and other organisations that promote non-violence and disarmament. 
 Teachers and students may wish to take their research further and consider issues of peace and conflict resolution in historically strife-torn regions, such as Israel, Palestine, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria, Bosnia, Northern Ireland and Iraq. 
 Students could discuss issues related to concepts of peace and justice. You might prompt classroom discussion with the following questions:
 Peace is often linked to justice. What do we mean by justice? Can there be a 'just war'? Can terrorists ever justify violence against innocent people?
 Students could also consider the impact of technology on peace. You could prompt classroom discussion with the following questions:
 World War One introduced terrible new weapons - does that mean science contributed towards the mass slaughter of World War One? Were the scientists and engineers who developed these weapons morally responsible for how they were used? Does technology make peace more difficult? How might science help move the world towards peace?
 Students could also consider why so many of us like war stories and war games. What is the attraction of this kind of material? Is it simple escapism or are there more sinister implications? 
 Why do people still watch films about World War Two, even though we are now friends with Germany? How do you think Germans feel about war films like for example 'The Dambusters'? Why was Michael Morpurgo's 'War Horse' such a success as a book, play and film?
 Compare cheerful songs of the World War One era (such as 'Goodbye-ee', 'Pack Up Your Troubles' and 'It's a Long Way to Tipperary') with the war poetry that students may well be reading in English. Recordings of wartime songs are easy to find on video-sharing websites.
 Useful links
 Finally, you might ask students to consider issues of international co-operation and conciliation. They could find out more about the work of UN agencies, the World Health Organisation and other charities active in disaster and famine relief. Do these initiatives help to promote peace? 
 You could ask whether the students believe modern news agencies and other media have any responsibility for keeping the peace. What about governments, international organisations and private citizens?
 You could encourage students to debate what makes a good peace symbol. 
 You might invite suggestions about the way artists, musicians and writers have expressed their views on war and peace. Students could find examples of contrasting images of peace and violence. They could go on to make a peace wall art installation of their own artwork.
 They might consider sources such as: heroic battle paintings made for propaganda purposes; more realistic paintings and photographs of war; art made with the explicit purpose of promoting peace; songs; images of anti-war protests during World War One; world leaders at the 1919 peace conference; victory celebrations in Britain; the rise of Hitler; the League of Nations in session; conscientious objectors; CND marchers in the 1950s; anti-Vietnam war protesters in the 1960s; modern peacemakers; the UN General Assembly and the work of UN peacekeepers.
