* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 1914 is an important year. It is important not just in Britain but across the world. 1914 is remembered in France and Germany, Italy and Austria, Russia, Turkey and India. It is remembered in Africa and the Caribbean, Australia and New Zealand, and in the United States and Canada too. 1914 is the year that World War One began. People then called it the Great War.
 World War One started in August 1914. Once armies began to prepare for war, no one seemed to know how to stop them. It was as if a great, brutal machine was grinding into action. No one seemed to know how to control it or turn it off.
 Still, at first people were sure there would soon be peace again. Young soldiers marched off cheering and smiling. 'We'll be home by Christmas,' they said. But they were not. The war lasted four long years.
 In World War One, both sides believed they were fighting a 'just war'. This meant they thought they were right and the people on the other side were wrong.
 In a sports team, you support your team-mate. It was the same with the countries that took part in the war. People who were patriotic believed their country was right to go to war.
 Pacifists wanted peace. They believed war was always wrong. Some pacifists said it was wrong to take life in any way and they refused to join the army. They were called 'conscientious objectors'. Some conscientious objectors went to jail. Others worked on farms or in hospitals to help their country without killing anyone. Some went to the battlefields to help soldiers wounded by the fighting. It was dangerous work and occasionally conscientious objectors won medals for bravery, even though they refused to fight.
 The war went on for four years. Millions were killed. In the end both sides were exhausted.
 Peace came in 1918. The guns at last fell silent. People felt relieved, but they were also deeply saddened and troubled. The war had caused huge loss of life. Many of the survivors could not enjoy the peace. Their bodies and minds had been ruined by war. They were haunted by the memories of what they had seen and suffered.
 Everyone hoped that World War One would be 'the war to end all wars'. But 21 years later, war came again. World War Two began in September 1939. Something had gone horribly wrong.
 After World War One, people tried to find a better way to settle arguments between countries. They set up an organisation called the League of Nations. Most countries joined. But they never really agreed, or gave up their armies, navies and air forces. In fact, they started making new weapons, beginning what was called an 'arms race'. Each country tried to get ahead of its rivals.
 After World War Two, another peacekeeping organisation was set up: the United Nations. It is still working hard to stop wars. It tries to reconcile old enemies and get them to live in peace.
 It can happen. Germany and France fought in two world wars, but today they are partners. Britain and Germany, once old enemies, are friends today. Reconciliation has brought hope to Northern Ireland and to South Africa.
 We can work and live together in peace, as long as we learn the lessons of the past.
 One hundred years ago, we were at war. Today we are at peace. And it is up to us to keep it that way.
 (Play the primary 'Peace' video clip.)
