These suggestions provide ways for pupils to imagine and investigate the lives of men who worked on the home front during World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 You could make a list of jobs men took on the home front during World War One. Which jobs meant wearing uniforms? List and talk about important jobs in British industry during wartime (coal miner, ship builder, railwayman, factory worker, shopkeeper, farm worker). Which of these jobs would pupils have chosen to do?
 Pupils could study photos of wartime work (a shipyard perhaps). What clues can they spot that show the scene is from another time? The children might mention details of the men's clothing or features of tools and transport. Many of the male workers seen in photographs of the early war period would eventually join up. The class could discuss the skills that someone from a factory or farm might bring to the army or navy.
 Pupils could go on to draw comic strips showing a man's day on the home front in the war years. The children could use information from the BBC Schools content, as well as material from books and websites to help them.
 Useful links
* British Pathé newsreels: World War One Life on the Home Front
 Pupils could view some short clips of newsreel from the war years that show men at work on the home front. Many online video-sharing sites carry suitable clips.
 Newsreels of the period were silent, of course. You could ask groups of pupils to choose a clip and script a commentary to accompany it. The children could improvise a musical accompaniment or add sound effects. Groups could then play their film clips to the class and read out their commentaries.
 You might begin with a discussion about men's work in the early 1900s, based on the children's experience of the BBC Schools content. What do pupils think would have been the worst jobs for men on the home front in 1914? What jobs might children have done?
 Invite pupils to suggest changes a man born in 1890 might have seen by 1918. Make a list (for example, motor cars, planes, telephones, airships, electric lights at home and cinema shows). 
 You could go on to stage a question and answer session with role-play. Some children could act as 'interviewers' and others could take on the character of, say, a coal miner or a railwayman.
 Useful links
* English Heritage: Coastguard Stations: World War One Life on the Home Front
 You could encourage pupils to study a map showing the nearest stretch of coastline. How do they think this coast might have been defended during the war years? What measures would they suggest to keep it safe from attack by U-Boats or Zeppelins? Ask pupils to identify the best places to set up lookout posts. How would the lookouts communicate with their HQ? Pupils might suggest relays of lookouts on hilltops, cliffs and high buildings to flash Morse Code messages with torches.
 Can anything be put in place to impede an invading force and stop it from landing? Pupils might suggest measures such as barbed wire entanglements, mine fields or barriers across harbours and inlets. Ask: 'If an invasion force did land here, what measures could be put in place to hold it up and stop it from getting any further?' Pupils might suggest places where road blocks could be located or bridges destroyed. Defensive trenches, pits and tank traps could be placed at 'pinch points' too. 
 Agree a set of symbols to show all these different measures. Groups of pupils could then plot their ideas onto the map. The groups could go on to brief the whole class on their plan for defending the coast.
 Useful links
* BBC Schools 'Turn Back Time resource pack: World War One Life on the Home Front
 A shipbuilder in 1914 was paid 37 shillings a week (£1.85 in today's money), but was getting 74 shillings (£3.70) a week by 1918. Pupils could work out the percentage increase in the shipbuilder's wages. Why do the children think shipbuilders managed to get such a big increase in their pay?
 During the war years, a 'Tommy' serving on the front line was paid 1 shilling (5p in today's money) a day. How much did that work out to a week? If soldiers had enjoyed the same increase as shipbuilders (they didn't), what would their pay have been by 1918?
 These wages sound tiny when expressed in today's money, but what could they have bought at the time? Pupils could search online for the prices of groceries and household goods in the early 1900s. The BBC Schools 'Turn Back Time' pack has some useful information.
 During its 8 hour shift, a pit pony could haul 30 tons of coal. Pupils could work out how many tons the pony hauled over a full working week (with one day off). The children could convert the amount from imperial tons to metric tonnes. If a pit had a team of twelve ponies, how much coal could it produce in a week? In a month? 
 You could read the class Wilfred Owen's poem 'Miners'. Do pupils think Owen has a message to convey in this poem? And if so, what is it?
 Useful links
* Barwick-in-Elmet Historical Society: Barwick Blackout in World War One: World War One Life on the Home Front
 You could read the class some short newspaper extracts from the war years that give details of the blackout that was enforced. The Barwick-in-Elemet Historical society has some examples. Ask, 'Why was the blackout so important?'
 Challenge pupils to design blackout measures for their classroom, so that not even a chink of light spills out. How difficult is it to achieve?
 If you were walking outside during the blackout, how would you find your way without showing a light? Pupils could experiment with making shaded lanterns (using torches). Can they design a lantern that throws its light onto the ground, without illuminating the rest of the surroundings?
 What dangers might there be from walking about in the blackout? How could people keep themselves safe from traffic? Pupils could experiment with various materials to make reflective armbands so they are more visible to passing traffic. How are such measures used today?
 Pupils could try weighing quantities of vegetables and other foodstuffs using pan scales and imperial weights. (If you cannot find iron weights in imperial units, you could make equivalent weights using plastic bags filled with sand.) The class could convert these measures into today's metric units. Dictionaries often have tables for converting measures or pupils could use online conversion sites. How good can the children become at estimating quantities before weighing them? 
 The children could experiment with patting butter into small quantities, using a couple of wooden spatulas. How easy is it to measure off a ¼ pound of butter, pat it into a block and parcel it up neatly with greaseproof paper and string? 
 A serving Tommy's daily ration of butter was just four ounces. What does four ounces of butter actually look like? How many slices of bread would it cover? Ask children to find out.
 Useful links
* West Watford History Group: Rats' tail and sparrows' heads: World War One Life on the Home Front
 With food so scarce in the war years, people worked hard to stop animals and birds eating the seeds that had been planted in the fields or the crops that had grown. Rats were considered pests (as they still are), but sparrows (now much rarer) were also seen as a problem. Many neighbourhoods ran 'Anti-sparrow Clubs' where money was paid out by the Board of Agriculture for every sparrow or rat caught and killed. People presented sparrows' heads or rats' tails to claim their cash.
 You could set some maths problems using the going rate of 1 shilling per dozen rats' tails and 3 pence per dozen sparrows' heads. For example, how many different ways are there of earning 2 shillings and sixpence?
 A less bloodthirsty measure was to protect crops with scarecrows. Challenge groups of pupils to make scarecrows. Which of their scarecrows do they think is the most effective? How could they test the scarecrows to find out?
