As Jewish families all over the world mark Passover, or Pesach, Rabbi Paul Freedman of Hertfordshire's Radlett &amp; Bushey Reform Synagogue explains the meaning of one of the main Jewish festivals.
 Passover: taste meets creativity
 It's an unusual comparison to draw, but in an odd way, the Jewish festival of Pesach is a tiny bit like Christmas. Of course it comes at a completely different time of year and it celebrates a completely different story, but it is a time when many Jewish families come together and celebrate with a special, festive meal. 
 To be precise, Pesach lasts a whole week and commemorates the Biblical story of the Exodus - the Israelites' escape from slavery in Egypt. But it begins with a special, ceremonial meal on the first night, called the seder, and (perhaps a bit like Boxing Day) some families repeat it the following day. 
 According to the story in the Book of Exodus, the Israelites had to leave in such a hurry (after the ten plagues) that there wasn't time for their dough to rise and they had to eat unleavened bread, or in Hebrew matzah. Imagine dry crackers, but these are thinner, drier and crumblier! 
 Not only do Jewish families still eat matzah during the week of Pesach but they also avoid all food that contains any one of five species of grain that can be used to make bread as well as the yeast and raising agents that help them to become leavened. 
 It is even customary to put all the usual crockery and utensils out of the way and use sets that are reserved exclusively for Pesach each year. I remember the excitement, as a child, of preparing for Pesach and rediscovering my Mr Men mug that lived in the loft for fifty-one weeks of the year (mine was Mr Happy; my brother's was Mr Bump).
 The seder plate
 Seder means 'order' in Hebrew. A special plate is used during the seder, containing symbolic foods including:
* maror and chazeret: bitter herbs - normally lettuce, representing the harshness of slavery
 * karpas: normally celery stalks, which are dipped in salted water. They represent spring time, and the simple food eaten by slaves
 * z'roa: a lamb shank bone, which represents the lamb sacrificed the night before the exodus. The lamb shank bone is not eaten
 * beitzah: a boiled egg, symbol of mourning in memory of the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem
 * charoset: a sweet, brown mixture remembering the mortar that the Jewish slaves used to build the cities of Pit'om and Ramses. It's normally made with apples, dates, almonds, nuts and, often, red wine.
Foods can vary from one Jewish tradition to the other.
Avoiding wheat, barley, oats and the like for a week may not sound particularly difficult or exciting, but it actually results in all sorts of special Pesach delicacies that, along with matzah sandwiches, make up the 'taste' of Pesach. Our family favourites are cinnamon balls, almond macaroons, coconut pyramids and - just for something savoury - matzah brei, which is crushed matzah, soaked in egg and then fried.
 The seder that begins the festival is far more than just Pesach dinner: it is a ritual drama, with prayers, songs and special props and prompts (many of them edible) to encourage questions and discussion. The 'script' is a special prayer book, called a Haggadah and there are many versions available, although they all follow the same basic framework. 
 The purpose of the seder and the message of the Haggadah are that we should not just tell the Exodus story but rather that there are always lessons to learn from it. And every seder is different, not just because the participants are different but the questions that they bring (including - indeed especially - the children) will be different too.
 Early on in the proceedings, we declare: "This (matzah) is the bread of affliction; let all who are hungry come and eat! All those who this year are still slaves, next year may they be truly free!" 
 Then the youngest participant who is able, usually a small child, sings four opening questions known as the Mah Nishtanah asking "Why this night is different from all other nights", in particular highlighting some of the seder night rituals that follow. Before we answer these, and the other questions that will arise, the Haggadah tells of four children, all with different, individual attitudes, questions and learning needs. Each is answered in a different way. 
 It is a centuries-old reminder of good educational practice, or pupil-centred learning. 
 Why Is this Night Different?
 After counting out the ten plagues with ten drops of wine, and tasting bitter herbs (maror) to represent the bitterness of slavery with a nutty paste (charoset) to represent the cement in the walls that the slaves had to build, eventually we arrive at the meal. The meal is not hurried, even though it is still only part-way through the seder. 
 It is a late night for the children. After the meal, the Haggadah turns more to the future, to our hopes for a messianic age when all will be free. There are many popular songs to be sung before the evening is over. Though the mood gets progressively merrier, the lessons of slavery and freedom, of our duty to feed the hungry and care for 'the stranger' - including the persecuted, the modern slaves, forced labourers, refugees and asylum-seekers in our day - remain.
 The richness of the ritual, the retelling of an ancient story and the relevance of the lessons for today make Pesach one of the most popular and enduring festivals of the Jewish calendar. In addition to families gathering for their own seder, many congregations also hold a large communal seder to celebrate the festival together.
 Rabbi Paul Freedman is Principal Rabbi of Radlett &amp; Bushey Reform Synagogue and has recently edited Haggadateinu (Our Haggadah), the first Haggadah produced for the British Reform Movement in over a century and a half of British Reform Judaism.
