The following suggestions provide ways for pupils to imagine and investigate what family life was like at the time of World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Mark the centenary of the outbreak of World War One by staging BBC Learning's specially-written play, 'Archie Dobson's War'.
 Pupils could make video or audio recordings of their performance, perhaps adding digital effects. They could edit the finished result using appropriate software.
 You could demonstrate how to construct a family tree and ask pupils to draw up an imaginary family tree for the Dobson family who appear in the BBC Schools radio play, 'Archie Dobson's War'.
 Pupils will need to work out suitable birth, death and marriage dates for the various characters. They could add in fictional aunts, cousins and grandparents too, calculating appropriate dates for each new addition to the tree.
 Some children may enjoy creating a similar fictional tree for the characters of a novel or film set in the period, such as Michael Morpurgo's 'Private Peaceful'.
 Men and women stationed abroad during World War One kept in touch with family and friends by writing letters. You can examine examples on the Guardian. There was great concern that letters containing 'sensitive information' might fall into the wrong hands and letters were often censored. Discuss with children what would be considered 'sensitive' information. You might like to model writing a simple letter from a soldier/nurse to a member of his or her family in the target language. Content could include 'thank you for a cake/socks/letter'. A simple sentence to describe 'the weather' and a simple sentence to describe how the writer of the letter is feeling, for example, 'I am well but tired'.
 Children could research cursive handwriting styles used in Britain in the early 20th century. They might also like to research the handwriting style of children from other countries. If you have a partner school abroad, you could exchange and compare examples of handwriting. 
 You could ask each pupil to take on the role of a child from 1914. Pupils could choose suitable first names from books of the period, such as 'The Secret Garden' by Frances Hodgson Burnett or the works of E Nesbit. 
 The children could search a period novel for examples of how the characters spoke. They could use the results of their research to help them imagine and write a week of diary entries for their character. They can find more inspiration for their diaries by following the 'Related Stories' links to the 'My Life' web pages. They can also discover more about a typical day on the Home Front.
 Encourage pupils to refer to aspects of daily life such as leisure, school, entertainment, housework and money, to add authenticity. Their diaries could include sketches.
 Following discussions about daily diet during World War One, children could keep a food diary for a week; written in the language they are learning and including an English translation. Half the class could keep a 1914 food diary and the other half a 2014 diary. Encourage children to read aloud their daily entries. Children could draw from a given list of foods or use a bi-lingual dictionary to complete their diaries. 
 Children might like to draw a typical dinner from 1914 and one from 2014 on paper plates, labelling foods in the target language. Comparisons can be made to discover similarities and differences in daily diets using simple sentences to answer questions such as: 'Which vegetables did people eat at meal times?' and 'How much fruit did people eat each day?' Children would enjoy expressing responses such as 'yucky' or 'yummy' in the target language. For extension you could introduce phrases such as 'I wouldn't like to eat (food item) because …'
 Children could role-play a British soldier ordering a coffee/glass of water abroad in 2014. Which language would he need to make his order? What might help him to work out any unfamiliar language spoken by the person serving him? What else might he need to consider, for example, how to address the person serving him? Children might like to perform their role-plays to the class or at a school assembly.
 You could ask pupils to search for pictures of houses from the early 1900s. They could search in books and in online photo archives, such as the one provided by English Heritage. 
 Encourage pupils to collect, compare and contrast images of the homes of rich and poor. The children could go on to compile their own digital slideshows to display their finds. Encourage pupils to add a caption to each slide, explaining its significance.
 You could ask pupils to find out how a variety of domestic jobs were done in the early 1900s. You could give pairs or groups of pupils a specific job to research, for example asking them to find out 'how to lay a fire', 'how to chop fire wood', 'how to use a mangle' or 'how to use a flat iron' (sometimes called a 'smoothing iron', 'sad iron' or 'slug iron').
 The children might go on to make lists of instructions, explaining how to do each task, ordering the instructions in sequence.
 They could take the same approach with researching and writing up recipes for typical Edwardian meals - rissoles perhaps, or shepherd's pie. Pupils could search online for 'Edwardian recipes'. When they write up the results of their researches, encourage the children to convert quantities from imperial units to metric ones. If time and resources allow, the class might vote for one recipe they could try out.
 In Edwardian times, someone had to carry coal for the fire and water to fill the copper (used to heat water). Often these jobs were given to older children. But how hard was this work?
 Pupils could experiment by filling a bucket (an iron one if possible) with a small amount of coal or water. They could weigh the buckets and convert their findings from kilos to old-fashioned imperial pounds.
 To get an idea of how prices have changed since Edwardian times, you could ask children to check the prices of sweets and fizzy pop in a range of local shops. In the early 1900s, you could get four liquorice strips and a bottle of ginger beer for a penny. How much would a similar treat cost today? The class could work out an average cost, based on their price research.
 You could challenge the class to find a street in the local area that would still be recognisable to someone from the early 1900s. Which nearby street is the least changed? Pupils could search online for old photos of their area (shopping streets are a good place to start). If your school is in an area of more modern development, choose a nearby town with an older street plan to investigate. Online tools such as Google Earth can help pupils explore likely places.
 Ask the children to imagine they lived in one of these streets in Edwardian times. Can they use what they have discovered to describe routes they would have taken every day? They might trace the journey to school, to the park, to church, to the shops or to a local cinema, for example. Can pupils follow these routes on a contemporary street map? How many of the buildings they could have visited back in Edwardian times are still in place today? Have any changed their use?
 You could ask pupils to close their eyes and listen to the sounds they can hear around them. Which sounds do they think people would not have heard back in 1914? Are there sounds that would have been common then, but are rarely heard in daily life now?
 Pupils could use information from the articles on family life (see the 'Related Stories' links) to devise a 'soundscape' of a period home or street. They could use a variety of items, including simple percussion, to create these soundscapes. Can they find suitable images to illustrate their compositions? See the Beamish museum's online archive for sources. 
 Edwardian children knew how to play marbles, but what about their 21st century peers? There are lots of different versions of the game. You could encourage pupils to find out more about the traditional ways of playing the game, for example by searching for online videos showing how to play marbles. The children could try out some of the different versions of the game. Which version do they think is the best?
 Edwardian children often made their own entertainment - and that included their toys. Show the class the illustration of a boy making a toy kite (in the slideshow on the 'Entertainment' tab of the 'Family life' webpage).
 You could challenge pupils to design and make their own kites using the same materials: string, thin garden canes, brown paper and paste. Encourage pupils to plan their designs carefully and to make exact measurements, so everyone ends up with a neat finished kite.
 The children could test their kites and find out more about the forces (up-thrust, air resistance, gravity) that influence their flight. Do some shapes and sizes fly better than others? Pupils could conduct an experiment to find out.
 Hopscotch is a traditional game that has been played in Britain for many centuries. By teaching numbers up to 10, you can show children how to play hopscotch in another language. If space is limited, children can play a mini-version of the game with their fingers doing the hopping. An extension to this activity would be to play hopscotch with a wider range of numbers.
 You might like to teach your class a counting rhyme in the target language. If you have a link with a partner school, you could exchange recordings of one or two traditional 'counting out' rhymes. Children could also find out how to play 'Rock, paper, scissors' in the new language they are learning.
 You could ask pupils to choose one of the characters from the articles on family life (see the 'Related Stories' links) and to paint a portrait of this character.
 Encourage pupils to make a series of test sketches of their character, engaging in all sorts of daily tasks and wearing a variety of outfits. The children could study period photographs to check details of the character's clothing. Finally, pupils could choose their favourite test sketch to develop into a finished portrait.
 Encourage pupils to use the range of resources available in the articles on family life (see 'Related Stories' links) to devise a quiz sheet for their classmates to answer. Pupils could include different styles of question, including 'odd one out', 'true or false' and multiple choice questions.
 The children could supplement these questions with ones based on their own research from books and websites.
