1. You must be aged 16 or above on 1st February 2014. 
 2. You must be a resident of the UK (including Isle of Man and Channel Islands). 
 3. The series is not open to anyone who is currently a professional artist, or artists who have already won professionally recognised prizes or awards for their work.
 4. To qualify as an amateur, individuals should not earn more than 50% of their annual income from their artworks, or be represented by an established gallery. The BBC's decision as to whether an entrant is amateur or professional is final. 
 5. Further, as this is a series for amateurs, entrants must declare any connection with a commercial art associate or organisation when entering. Although this will not automatically exclude an entrant, the BBC will consider any conflict of interest and reserves the right to exclude an entry on that basis. 
 6. Proof of age, identity and eligibility may be requested.
 7. Entrants must only submit copies or photographs of artworks with their application (not originals). Artworks cannot be returned.
 8. You must be able to commit to all the filming days required, which are currently expected to be during May, June, July, August 2014.
 9. You must not be employed by the BBC or be closely related to someone who is employed by the BBC, or anyone connected with the programme. 
 10. You must declare any past convictions or impending trials on the application form. This will not automatically disqualify you from entry, each case will be considered individually.
 11. You warrant that all information you supply to the BBC as part of this application in the programme is accurate and you have been and will be at all times truthful and honest. If you are chosen to participate in the programme, you agree to authorise the BBC to conduct background checks in order to verify any of the information you have supplied and you agree to provide them with any assistance or further information necessary to do this.
 12. Your participation in and compliance with the application process does not in any way constitute an agreement with the BBC for you to appear on the programme. The BBC has no obligation to produce the programme and even if the programme is produced there will be no obligation on the BBC or any other party to broadcast or transmit or otherwise exploit the programme or include you or any filming in the programme.
 13. When selecting applicants for this programme the following will be taken into account: skill, enthusiasm, drive, love of painting and art, lively characters who are comfortable being filmed. Initial selection will be based on the application forms, submitted artworks and telephone interviews. In addition the Producers may (but may not) invite shortlisted applicants to attend an interview at their discretion. We will be looking for a mix of finalists to reflect the range in age, location, gender and diversity of amateur painters in Britain.
 14. By submitting your application form, you agree, if you are selected to take part in the programme, to sign a contributor consent form granting the BBC all necessary rights and consents for the full period of copyright (and afterwards so far as possible in perpetuity) to copy edit and/or use at their sole discretion the product of your contribution to the programme for any purposes connected with the programme, the promotion and advertising thereof and all other rights (including all allied and ancillary rights) in the programme by any means and in any and all media now known or hereafter invented throughout the world in perpetuity.
 15. The BBC will retain the artworks and copyright of any artworks made during filming for the programme and retains the right to use any such artworks in for any purposes connected with the programme, the promotion and advertising thereof. Any such artworks must not be sold without prior agreement between the BBC and the contributor.
 16. You agree to keep all information relating to the application process confidential and will not disclose or make any public statement regarding the same including without limitation on blogs or social networking platforms. 
 17. Application forms will be retained by the BBC. The BBC will use your personal details only for the purposes of considering your application for this series and for potential future series, for administration and for related services should you be successful. Your personal information will not be passed to anyone else except where we are obliged to do so or unless otherwise authorised by you. The information will be kept securely and in accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998 and other applicable legislation.
 18. The BBC's decision regarding selection for the programmes is entirely at its discretion and cannot be appealed. The BBC reserves the right at any time and for any reason to change its selection and/or to choose a replacement applicant to participate in the programme. 
 19. The deadline for applications is 23:59, Sunday 23rd March. If you have not heard from a member of the team by phone or email by Friday 3rd April 2014, unfortunately your application has been unsuccessful this time around.
 20. I have read and understood these Rules of Entry and by submitting this Application Form I warrant that I am eligible to participate in the programme.
 • a short paragraph about why you paint.
 Deadline is Sunday 23rd March - but don't wait until the closing date!
 If you have not heard from us by Friday 3rd April it means that unfortunately you application has been unsuccessful.
 If your entry is successful the production team will contact you by telephone or email, after which you may be invited to the next stage.
