* Transporters 
 * Workers 
 * Messengers 
 * Helpers and mascots 
 * Pests 
 There are many stories of animals who became companions and mascots to soldiers during World War One.
 Some soldiers found animals whilst they were on the front line. 
 Jimmy the donkey
 Jimmy 'The Sergeant' was a donkey born at the Battle of the Somme in 1916. 
 Jimmy was wounded three times during World War One. He learnt to raise his hoof in salute by soldiers who brought him up. After the war, Jimmy raised thousands of pounds for the RSPCA charity. 
 Jackie the baboon (see photo in gallery above) was taken to France by South African soldiers. Jackie had excellent eyesight and hearing and used to warn soldiers of enemy movement or possible attacks by making noises and tugging on their clothing. He was able to politely eat using a knife and fork and cleverly drink from a cup. Unfortunately Jackie lost his foot in action but he was still able to salute and line up for his pay with the other soldiers. 
 A Royal Air Force Squadron kept a fox. Another band of soldiers kept an eagle (see photos in the gallery above). One Polish soldier, fighting in Persia, found a bear. Others kept smaller mascots in jars in their trenches. Many of these were seen as lucky and the soldiers were also able to show their caring side by looking after animals during the war. 
 Glow-worms give off light through a process called bioluminescence. 
 They were reported to have been used in the trenches by some soldiers. Their light became very useful to men as the trenches could be very dark. When they realised that glow-worms gave off light, soldiers started to collect them. Thousands were kept in jars and used as lanterns.
 The glow-worms meant soldiers could read maps, letters and intelligence reports inside the trenches and they did not have to risk their lives going above ground to get some light. 
 Winnie the Pooh
 Winnipeg the bear (known as Winnie for short) was an American black bear who was a mascot to Canadian soldiers. The Canadians gave Winnie to London Zoo in 1914 when they left for France. The writer AA Milne took his son Christopher Robin to see Winnie at the zoo. Christopher liked Winnie so much, it inspired his father to write stories about the two of them. This was how the famous series of stories about Winnie the Pooh was born.
 Decorated dog
 Some dogs were used to help lay telephone wires over long distances. Smaller dogs were also used inside the trenches. 
 Some dogs were called 'ratters' and were trained to hunt and kill the rats that infested the trenches. 
 Other dogs served as pets and companions for the soldiers, keeping them company and helping them forget about the horrors of the war. One such pet, who later became the most honoured war dog ever, was an American dog called Sergeant Stubby.
 Teachers' notes
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas looking at animals during the war.
