In a much-discussed public exchange, Irish singer Sinéad O'Connor warned young American star Miley Cyrus not to let the music industry "prostitute" her. 
 Many artists have joined the conversation, including Charlotte Church, who recalled how, at the beginning of her career, she felt compelled to sexualise herself in order to get ahead. 
 Is there anything ethically or morally wrong if an adult consciously, independently wishes to use their sex appeal to get what they want, for example to further their career? 
 The question is more complex than it seems and is deeply connected to the power structures in our society.
 In 2011, on the pages of the Daily Mail writer and producer Samantha Brick admitted using her physical allure to get her own way, claiming that "so does any woman with any sense". 
 She supported her case by citing sociologist Catherine Hakim's book Honey Money: The Power Of Erotic Capital, which argued women should capitalise on their erotic side to get on in life. Predictably, some disagreed. 
 Iain Law, senior lecturer in philosophy at the University of Birmingham, thinks that using looks is not always wrong in itself.
 "If, suppose, the casting of a film calls for a particularly handsome leading man, it doesn't seem wrong for someone to use their handsomeness to get the part," he says. 
 "Certain people get to be successful partly because they are thought to be sexually attractive, for example film stars and other people in the public eye."
 A symbol of empowerment?
 A poster from 75 years ago, featuring a young woman flexing her arm muscle has become a worldwide icon of female strength, struggle and empowerment. So why does this image keep coming back into popular culture?
 However, adds Dr Law, the rules are slightly different outside of show business, for example in an office environment.
 "If you're getting an unfair deal and privileges which are denied to your co-workers and have nothing to do with your performance, then that's unfair and unjust," he says.
 "But the fact that it is sexuality that's being used rather than, say, cronyism - knowing the boss, being one of the family - doesn't really matter. It's the unfairness of the result that matters." 
 Maria do Mar Pereira, a feminist sociologist at the University of Warwick, sees the sexual element of this unfair deal as a key contextual issue.
 "There's nothing wrong with making use of the skills and resources that you have in order to navigate the world. Individually, there's nothing wrong, but individuals exist in society," Dr Pereira says.
 "The fact that we're encouraged to think that [sexuality] is one of the primary resources that you should explore and draw on, and that is a message that is especially passed on to women, creates an enormous amount of expectation and pressure that has an impact on well-being, on self-confidence, interaction with each other - and that's something that we have to worry about." 
 Both academics agree that, in the case of high-profile women who work in the public arena, the professional use of a sexualised image might have a problematic impact on their audience, who may feel it is the only way to succeed.
 There is a word that frequently pops up in the debate on the extent to which people, and in particular women, should sexualise their image, if at all. 
 This word is empowerment and is linked to the idea that sex is a weapon of liberation. Using it to your own advantage is not just a skill, but a way to assert an individual's right to self-determination.
 So scanty outfits, provocative behaviour or willingly joining the sex industry have been regarded by some as examples of the fight against exploitation and reclaiming the female body. 
 Dr Pereira warns that empowerment and exploitation can go hand-in-hand.
 "Often people feel empowered even when they're doing things that are exploitative, and often people might be very powerful and exploit others and not feel empowered at all."
 	"
 Your empowerment cannot come at the expense of the empowerment of others"
 Individual decisions, she says, operate on two levels: one is the way the person feels, i.e. whether they feel they have made a pleasurable decision. The other level is the social impact and repercussions of that individual decision.
 "People need to be held accountable for the decisions they make regardless of how they feel about these decisions," Dr Pereira adds.
 "It's a bit like the philosophical argument that one's freedom ends where another's freedom begins. Your empowerment cannot come at the expense of the empowerment of others." 
 Dr Law explains that western liberal society believes in the individual right to self-determination and self-expression. However, he adds: "Most of us, when pushed, will find that there are limits to how far we think that's true. 
 "It's very common for people to find that they have moral intuitions which rebel against certain forms of self-exploitation. 
 "For instance, selling yourself in a literal sense is something that people find wrong, even if it's not done out of coercion or exploitation by others. 
 "For example, we think that blood should be donated rather than sold."
 Dr Law says whether or not these intuitions are right is a debate that inflames the ethics community.
 "Some people want to push the idea of self-determination right to the extreme and say that there is no such thing as self-exploitation: if you choose it freely, it's fine. Others of us disagree with that." 
 Dr Law adds, that in the case of pop music and culture promoting a sexualised image, there might be a clash between an artist's individual right to self-expression and the potentially damaging social effect of their art.
 While music is often cited as complicit in promoting sexualisation to a young audience, it has also helped shape the current moral landscape and redefine what is socially acceptable, in particular with regards to sex and women's freedom. 
 Charlotte Church cited Madonna as a "template setter" who used her image to make a statement, someone in charge of her own sexuality. By changing her image regularly and putting her sexual self in the heart of her image, says Ms Church, Madonna was proving to be in control of herself and her sexuality.
 So is this merely a matter of taste? How can an audience draw the line between positive and vulgar, degrading uses of sex? 
 Dr Pereira thinks the difference is not in the audience or the intention, but in whether the way sexuality is used by a particular artist is "opened up or closed down".
 "For example, you can be overweight and still be sexual. Any kind of use of sex that promotes and encourages a sense of diversity and multiplicity is socially very powerful in a very positive sense," says Dr Pereira.
 On the other hand, she concludes, any use of sex that reinforces a more narrow understanding of sexuality - for example that the only way of being sexual is to be young and made up in a certain way - "tends to reinforce norms and expectations and ends up limiting our choices and our decision-making".
