More from Food
* Food myth 
 * Supermarket struggles 
 * Sit down dinners 
 * What is bunny chow? 
 Once the only food in pubs was peanuts or pork scratchings. Pub grub has now dramatically changed - but does it need to improve further? 
 "Pub food is food that your heart falls in love with - simple but amazing ingredients - so you can be wowed by the brilliance of a Bramley apple," says chef Tom Kerridge, the only British chef with two Michelin stars for food produced in a pub - The Hand and Flowers in Marlow, Buckinghamshire. 
 Gastropubs have come under fire ever since the name (for a pub that put effort into its food) was coined in the 80s for the Eagle, listed as London's first gastropub in the Lonely Planet.
 Love them or hate them, the food revolution in Britain's boozers over the past 20 years has seen a seismic shift in what's on offer, and what drinkers and diners expect.
 "Food is really where the money is when it comes to a pub," says Fiona Stapley, editor of the Good Pub Guide. 
 So could pub food be better still - benefiting landlords and diners alike? 
 Try Tom's proper pub grub:
 It's arguably pretty hard to better what's at the top end - but Tom Kerridge thinks it's important to keep developing.
 "We still have the same ethos as pubs in the rest of the country - to provide value for money, use British ingredients, and make great food that has that homeliness, that comfiness," he explains.
 "Our dishes are about the strength of ingredients and the simplicity of understanding a dish, like having fish and chips, or treating yourself to a lovely apple crumble. 
 "We never rest on our laurels, we always want to give it more."
 He reveals his pub kitchen's secrets in his new series Tom Kerridge's Proper Pub Food.
 His recipes range from the traditional - such as treacle-cured roast beef with Yorkshire puddings, through to the inspired - like mussels cooked in ale, to the fun, like deep-fried popcorn cockles with chilli vinegar. 
 "It is food I would cook at home for friends on days off - the starting point is one key ingredient and the cooking ethos stays there - so hopefully people can do it at home, even if it doesn't look the same, the flavour is there," he explains.
 Food writer Sophie Morris says good pub food "needs to be unfussy but that doesn't mean it can't be of a really high standard".
 Do it yourself:
 "What's bad is when you read a menu and it's really complicated and every dish has a long list of ingredients. It's a sure sign the kitchen is not that great. 
 "You see lots of copycat menus everywhere but at the same time we think because we now have a really foodie culture, it's the same everywhere - but there are large parts of the country are just beginning to explore food this way.
 "It is good to have some diversity across different areas - pubs that know who their punters are and cater to them." 
 Not everyone wants fancy pub food.
 In The Search for the Perfect Pub, authors Paul Moody and Robin Turner scoured the UK in search of The Moon Under Water, a pub that George Orwell wrote an Evening Standard essay about in 1946.
 Orwell described his ideal pub food at the time as thus: "You cannot get dinner at the Moon Under Water - but there is always a snack counter where you can get liver-sausage sandwiches, mussels, cheese, pickles and those large biscuits with caraway seeds in them.
 "Upstairs, six days a week you can get a good solid lunch - for example a cut off the joint, two vegetables and a boiled jam roll."
 Such simple fayre is no longer on the menu, but Brits spent £31bn eating out in 2012, and £6.5bn of that was on pub food says Helena Spicer, from market research firm Mintel.
 Fiona Stapley says the standard of food has developed considerably since the Good Pub Guide was launched.
 "When we first started the book over 30 years ago, most people would have very boring food - a basket meal, dull cocktail sausages, roast beef... it was only as people started to go abroad and watching more people abroad on TV, that people wanted more innovative food, like from Spain and China. 
 "Then lots of ready-made freezer meals became more widespread, heated up in the microwave in the 80s, which lots of readers complained about, but it was quite easy for kitchens.
 The way things were:
 In the pubs and working men's clubs of the 40s and 50s there were strict customs governing who stood where. 
 To be invited to sup at the bar was a rite of passage for many young men, and it took years for women to be accepted into these bastions of masculinity. 
 As the country prospered and foreign travel became widely available, so new drinking habits were introduced as we discovered wine and, even more exotically, cocktails. 
 Watch the working mens' clubs' rules
 "Then nouvelle cuisine appeared and there was an extraordinary change... but the public didn't like the tiny helpings or attitude that came with it. 
 "After health scares, chefs started to source more locally - and that's definitely where we are today, producers and chefs work really closely together. 
 "A lot of pubs are growing their own, raising their own chickens, pigs are very popular, lamb as well. There's homemade breads, jams, chutneys - it couldn't be more different than 20 years ago. 
 It's not just the food that attracts clientele, says Sophie Morris. 
 "Fifteen to 20 years ago pubs weren't really nice places to go for women or with a group of girlfriends," she says.
 "(Today) If you've gone to a pub, you've gone for that atmosphere. 
 "Lots of pub food should be the sort of stuff you can make at home, like a pie, but for me it's nice to have someone else make it, with great ingredients, so it's not complicated but tastes great."
 Tom Kerridge agrees, saying that "the relaxed pub dining atmosphere is the biggest movement in the restaurant scene now".
 The smoking ban has helped bring families and children back in to pubs, allowing them to develop a communal eating culture, says Sophie Morris.
 This even extends in to more communal cooking, says Tom Kerridge. 
 "There's a crossover into pubs doing more smoking, barbequing and slow-cooking, someone smoking a whole brisket... reaching out to to the 18 to mid-30s who have made the ability to go out for more great food more accessible," he explains.
 According to Mintel 47% of people would choose something that they could not usually make at home, and 34% are interested in traditional ingredients. 
 British pub classics
 The origins of sticky toffee pudding are a bit of a mystery, but some say this British pud first rose to prominence in the 60s.
 British pork pies can be traced back to the medieval tradition of raised pies. Usually, once the pie is baked, stock made from the trimmings is poured through a hole in the middle.
 A traditional meat and potato dish from the UK, cottage pie uses beef mince whereas the similar shepherd's pie uses lamb.
 While every year there is a new trend, according to Fiona Stapley, sharing platters are popular at the moment. 
 But she says what people really want is "fair value, honest ingredients, local ingredients and imagination".
 "If a pub is charging £18-£19 for a main - a lot of people will gulp at that. 
 "You are looking for value for the quality - so that customers feel they are getting a fair deal. Often pub landlords and landladies are absorbing costs, as costs rise, to ensure that," she explains.
 The recent resurgence for real ales is also an assurance that customers continue to demand quality - from both drinks and food.
 "You don't go to the pub now and sink 8-10 pints, you go and try a real ale and savour the flavour, you've got to have beers with flavour," says Tom Kerridge.
 To get into the Good Pub Guide book, a pub has "to have a working bar", says Fiona Stapley. 
 "Bars that serve only one real ale - they will flounder. No matter how foodie you are, you have to serve real ale (and good wine)," she says.
 What does the future hold for pub food then?
 "It will never change now, people want top quality local produce, that will stay. It's the food quality and ingredients that speak for themselves," she says.
 Sophie Morris says experimentation is always welcome, but pubs should always continue to offer British classics.
 As she says: "The humble British pub has got an important job to do - to show how to enjoy food and cooking."
