Twenty-three years after it began, Slow Food is holding its biennial international get-together in Turin, Italy. But what is the legacy of this movement, which was founded as the antithesis to fast food? 
 "Slow Food has given a dignity to the rural world," says Mario Gala, a co-ordinator for a group of sheep farmers in Atla Langa, in Cuneo province, Italy. 
 "But it has also made me feel part of a community."
 There are fewer than 2,500 Langhe breed sheep left in the Langhe Cuneesi, and their milk is used to make tuma d'fé - a small round traditional cheese made with raw milk for centuries in the area. 
 Celebrate British slow foods
 The cheese is eaten after 10-15 days, but traditionally also preserved in glass jars to be eaten in winter. But with sheep farming dwindling, the cheese has been at risk of dying out.
 The farmers are now a "presidium", their milk and cheese highlighted for protection and saving by Slow Food.
 All over the world, in fields, orchards, on farms, in boats, kitchens, small breweries and in vineyards, small-scale food harvesters and producers have bought in to Slow Food's vision of good, clean and fair food for all. 
 It is now a highly-complex organisation, with many strands carrying out a lot of different functions. 
 But everything it does aims "to have restored cultural dignity to food and those that produce and cook it", says Serena Milano, general secretary of the Slow Food Foundation for Biodiversity, based in Florence, Italy.
 Catherine Gazzoli, the chief executive of Slow Food UK, says Slow Food's greatest legacy has to be the development of "the idea that there is an alternative to fast food, and progress doesn't mean bigger, faster and global when it comes to food production and eating".
 Slow Food began when its founder, Carlo Petrini, set it up to try and halt the opening of a McDonald's restaurant in one of Rome's Piazza di Spagna. 
 That particular quest was unsuccessful, but he came up with a manifesto and since then the non-profit member-supported association has spread to become a network of 100,000 members in 153 countries. 
 Slow Food has 1,300 local chapters in its members network which develop activities, projects and events at a local, regional and global level. 
 There are 10,000 small producers involved in 400 "presidia" projects in 50 countries - designed to protect food biodiversity and save products at risk of extinction in rural areas. 
 There is an "Ark of Taste" list, which catalogues 1,000 unique "forgotten foods" from these countries that are threatened by industrial standardisation and that it hopes to save. 
 It also has a separate network called Terra Madre which aims to preserve, encourage, and support sustainable food production methods around the world. 
 Producers 'go global'
 But there are also 1,300 food education schemes under way and 350 school gardens in 100 countries to help explain to children the importance of food provenance, sustainability and quality. 
 As well as that. Slow Food runs campaigns to sustain small-scale fishing (Slow Fish), defend communities' land (Stop Land Grabbing), counter the introduction of genetically-modified organisms in agriculture (Stop GMOs), and it is also holding its sixth Slow Food annual congress in Italy alongside the Terra Madre and Salone Del Gusto events. 
 Now that "eating local", and supporting small suppliers, buying quality, fresh ingredients from markets and buying fair trade foods have become so popular, do we still need Slow Food? 
 "Sadly it's not as well-known as it should be. There's an element of society not making that change," says Maria Whitehead, from Hawkshead Relish in Cumbria, England.
 Her company is a member of Slow Food UK, as they produce chutneys, jams and jellies often with damsons, a soft fruit championed by Slow Food as one of Britain's "forgotten foods".
 She says damsons grow in abundance in the Lyth Valley, 10 miles from where they are based, and while everyone in the area makes things like damson gin, "when we talk to (other) people, a lot of people don't know what damsons are". 
 Slow Food it seems, is not a concept that is familiar to all food consumers. 
 Maria says: "Those who want to eat slow food know it already. It's very easy at a foodie festival to explain it to people passionate about food - it's the ones who don't know about it who you want to convince."
 Serena Milano says knowledge of the movement "depends on the area and context". 
 "In general consumers have not yet fully perceived the complexity of Slow Food. 
 "Many still think of it as a typical gastronomic society that deals with restaurants and wine, and not as an organisation that carries out projects across the world to change the future of agriculture," she explains.
 One country where Slow Food is well known and appreciated, is in its founding nation, Italy. 
 Slow eating African-style
 Indeed, it's not hard to find examples of Slow Food producers in Italy. 
 Pietro Guglielmi is a distiller in Liguria, Vallebona in Imperia province who creates a bitter orange flower water. 
 The traditional method of distilling bitter oranges from orchards in the area close to the French border had almost died out, as had orange trees in the area. But he is working to bring it back, along with orange groves there.
 Pietro says: "I think in our region - which is peculiar because of the many internationally recognised quality products (wines and olives, just to name a couple) ordinary customers have at least a general idea of what Slow Food is. 
 "For the majority, it's an added guarantee of a product's worth. 
 "Slow Food changed a lot for me: it gave the 'classy touch' to a peculiar product, and it also helped me hugely increase the visibility both locally and globally," he explains.
 Ark of Taste forgotten foods:
* Large black pig
 * Lyth Valley damsons 
 * Yorkshire forced rhubarb
* Bull Boar sausage 
 * Bunya Nuts 
 * Leatherwood honey 
* Trébons onion 
 * Rennes Coucou chicken 
 * Bruis Walnut 
* Donkey salami
 * Black cherry wine
 * Langhe sheep
* Blue cornmeal 
 * Chilhuacle 
 * Chinantla vanilla 
 But it's not just in Europe that Slow Food reaches out to foster sustainable food production and empower communities.
 A red fizzy drink also made in Italy, but from Kenema kola nuts grown and harvested in Sierra Leone, is one example of how small businesses around the world are collaborating to help save small-scale traditional foods. 
 Cola Baladin is a soft drink which contains no artificial colouring or preservatives and is produced with nuts bought from the Kola Slow Food Presidium. 
 Part of the revenues from its sales will be donated to the Slow Food Foundation for Biodiversity to support the presidium project. 
 Teo Musso, head brewer at Baladin, says: "I think that the global knowledge of the Slow Food movement and their effort to teach about biodiversity and who made it, is now on the right way to being understood all over the world. 
 "In particular the presidium projects are so important to avoid the disappearance of incredible products and local cultures. 
 "They show us that if you believe in and promote a real culture, people will follow you.
 "Ours may be a niche production, but we believe it will help us give the word sustainability its full and important meaning."
 In the UK, Slow Food has a chefs alliance which encourages chefs to cook with foods at risk of extinction and support slow food producers. 
 But will Slow Food really be able to help save all these unique foods and food production techniques around the world? 
 Catherine Gazzoli says it has a great tool in its arsenal that is key to converting people to a greater ideal than just "eating local". 
 "The difference between Slow Food and other movements is the emphasis on a real enjoyment of food - we don't separate the production from the sensory experience," she says.
 For many small producers, having a platform to showcase their wares to a global audience in Turin will ensure they have a greater chance of survival.
