The woman chosen by President Obama to read the invocation prior to his inauguration speech is a civil rights activist whose husband was assassinated in a racist killing 50 years ago. 
 Medgar Evers' remains lie in Arlington cemetery, just a few miles from where his widow Myrlie Evers-Williams helped open the ceremony. 
 He was shot by a white supremacist at around midnight on his doorstep in June 1963 while his wife and three children were in the living room, getting ready to greet him as his car pulled up the driveway of their home in Jackson, Mississippi.
 He was the first prominent black civil rights leader to be assassinated in the sixties and his death marked a turning point in the struggle for equality during those turbulent years in America. Shortly after his murder Martin Luther King delivered his famous "I have a dream.." speech on the Jobs and Freedom March on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. 
 The following year President Lyndon Johnson introduced the Civil Rights Act prohibiting discrimination on the grounds of race or colour - 99 years after the USA officially abolished slavery.
 Medgar Evers had been prominent in the NAACP ( The National Association for the Advancement of Colored Persons) and his death sent shockwaves through the civil rights movement. It also thrust his widow Myrlie into the limelight and she admits that she found the early years difficult, struggling to look after a young family. 
 "I got them up to my mouth couldn't put them in," she told CNN. "I got up, looking at my baby and realising that I could not have him wake up and find his mother dead….and I flushed those pills down the toilet".
 She rejected the notion of becoming a "civil rights widow" and moved her family to California where she established herself as a civil rights activist in her own right. 
 A major turning point had been her decision to run for Congress in 1969 - albeit unsuccessfully - under her own name, Myrlie Evers, and not Mrs Medgar Evers, keen to re-establish her own identity.
 She was later appointed to the Board of Public Works as a commissioner in Los Angeles while continuing to pursue justice for the man suspected of her shooting her husband.. 
 Twice, juries had failed to reach a verdict on Byron De La Beckwith, a fertilizer salesman and self-styled white supremacist, and twice he was freed.
 Myrlie Evers pursued the case, and De La Beckwith was brought to trial based on new evidence and was convicted of murder and imprisoned in 1994. He died in 2001.
 She has played an active role in civil rights for much of her life and the symbolism of her presence is clear at the inauguration of the first African American to become US President.
 She has been chairman of the NAACP and is the author of a number of books including an autobiography 'Watch Me Fly: What I Learned on the way to Becoming the Woman I was Meant to Be".
 In 1998 she established the Medgar Evers Institute, to preserve and promote his work and legacy and is currently scholar-in-residence at Alcorn State University in Mississippi. 
 In 1975 she married Walter Williams, a longshoreman and union activist - he died in 2001.
