The following suggestions provide ways for pupils to picture and find out about the clothes worn in the early 1900s.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Useful links
* Victoria and Albert Museum's online collection
 * Beamish Museum's online collection
 * BFI Edwardian Britain's YouTube channel
 * British Pathé: WW1 Life on the Home Front
 The class could explore the Victoria and Albert Museum's online collection for images of period clothing. 
 Children could use search terms such as: 'Norfolk jacket', 'straw boater', 'frock coat' or '1914 dress' to see items from the collection, along with detailed information about them. 
 The children might go on to spot examples of the costumes they have researched in photographs or films of the time. 
 Useful links
* Bodleian Library's collection of 'The Wind in the Willows' illustrations
 Pupils could follow up on the 'Dress detective' activity by examining Ernest H. Shepard's classic illustrations for 'The Wind in the Willows', published in 1908. The Bodleian Library has a selection available online. 
 Can the class name items of clothing worn by different characters? What social class do they appear to belong to? 
 The children could go on to identify the clothing worn by characters in other classic period images. For example, Beatrix Potter's illustrations are a vivid guide to clothing in Edwardian times, just before World War One. They could then look at clothing after the war, into the 1920s. What differences can they spot - especially in women's clothes?
 Pupils will be able to find more pictures of period clothing in comics and magazines of the early 1900s. 
 Fabrics used for making clothes at the time included: serge, worsted, cheviot or vicuna, velvet, tweed, lace, silk, linen and leather. Pupils could check dictionaries for definitions of these terms, or search online for examples. Pupils could also investigate what soldiers' uniforms were made from. 
 You could ask the children to check the labels in their own clothes. What are today's clothes made of? Are any of the fabrics familiar to World War One families still in use?
 Pupils might go on to sort through a selection of old clothes, fabric swatches, or off-cuts of material. Can they find examples of any of the textiles used in the clothes of the early 1900s? The class could make a sample book of small squares of suitable fabric.
 Ask pupils to sketch a figure from the World War One period. Perhaps suggest someone a child might have met - teachers, shopkeeper, factory worker, soldier, sailor, rich lady, postwoman, housemaid, delivery boy etc. They can base their sketches on a source image (a contemporary photograph, a section of a newsreel, or a book illustration).
 Pupils could use thick cartridge paper (or brown paper). Encourage them to work on a large scale, so that details of clothing are shown.
 They could go on to glue fabric onto their sketches, to make collages that illustrate, as closely as possible, the materials originally used in the figure's clothes. A pupil could glue scraps of tweed inside the outline of a Norfolk jacket, for example. The children could collate suitable scraps of fabric from a selection of rags, old clothes or off-cuts of material.
 One wartime poster told people that 'To dress extravagantly in wartime is worse than bad form. It is unpatriotic.' Another included the message 'Don't buy new clothes needlessly. Don't be ashamed of wearing old clothes in War time.'
 You could explain that families on the home front were encouraged to keep wearing their old clothes, not buy new ones. Patching up old clothes to get more wear out of them was practical and a way of helping the war effort.
 Children could learn to patch up old or torn clothes (perhaps from the school's lost property stock), just as people did between 1914 and 1918. They might learn to thread a needle, try to darn a hole or mend a tear and sew on buttons.
