I guess if Pope John Paul II had known I was in Rome to make a BBC Panorama documentary called Sex and the Priesthood, I might have been left at the back of the room. 
 In May 1993, I had gained permission to film a Vatican conference on the future of celibacy in the priesthood at a very sensitive time for the Roman Catholic Church. 
 Stories of priestly abuse were beginning to emerge, married Anglicans were being welcomed into the Roman church as fully paid-up clergy and vocations were drying up because young men were saying they had issues with a life of sexual abstinence. The fifty or so conference delegates, mainly bishops and archbishops from all over the world, were whisked over to the papal palace and our crew carried on filming.
 John Paul II's miracles
* Two miracles have been officially attributed to Pope John Paul II - the number usually needed for canonisation
 * The first miracle was the apparent curing from Parkinson's Disease of French nun Sister Marie Simon-Pierre Normand
 * The second miracle came was the reported "inexplicable recovery" of Costa Rican woman Floribeth Mora from a serious brain illness, which was attributed to John Paul II's intercession
 I brushed past a few Swiss guards and we took our position inside this magnificent ornate room full of priceless paintings. Pope John Paul II came in and to my amazement, the papal press contact beckoned me forward to get in the queue. I was going to meet him - this world superstar, kisser of tarmacs, bane of Communist oppression. 
 My heart rate doubled. The queue got shorter and I began to see how imposing this man really was. He was huge. I don't just mean tall or well built, he had the most enormous frame - a real imposing presence which seemed to magnify with every step I took to move closer. 
 Marjorie Weeks, the Vatican broadcast media liaison officer, introduced me: "This is Mark Dowd from the BBC. Before he was a journalist he used to be a Dominican friar." 
 'Most powerful X-ray machine'
 The Pope's eyes lit up… A journalist hack with a difference! The exchange lasted just under two minutes. His English was halting and rather staccato, but he managed well enough. Why had I left the priesthood? Did I realise that the media had enormous potential to evangelise the world? He concluded by saying he would pray for me and that maybe one day, perhaps I might re-think my decision on priestly life.
 I walked away and I was visibly shaking. I have never known anything like it in my life. It was as though I had been in the presence of the most powerful X-ray machine. The way he looked at me with those eyes - so gentle, yet so probing and questioning. It was both reassuring and terrifying at the same time. 
 	"
 What do I make of John Paul II now? He remains to me an enigma"
 In Edward Elgar's Dream of Gerontius, there's a scene in the text of Cardinal John Henry Newman, in which the soul of the deceased man, which has departed from this earthly life, is accompanied by an angel on its journey towards the judgement throne. 
 Gerontius asks his angelic companion if he shall see "his dearest Master" and the angel replies: "Yes, for one moment thou shalt see thy Lord… But thou knowest not, my child, what thou dost ask; the sight of the Most Fair will gladden thee, but it will pierce thee too."
 The judgment lasts but a second as Gerontius is "consumed yet quickened by the glance of God." To be in the presence of true holiness is both a transcendent and accusatory experience as all one's inadequacies are laid bare. Imperfection in the midst of eternal perfection has no place to hide. 
 Is this what happened to me in May 1993? Don't misunderstand me. I am not saying the Polish Pope was divine, but it's my deeply held conviction that he was touched by something beyond the here and now, something so utterly not belonging to the temporal order, that it produced this extraordinary effect for a brief moment, but as I write these words now, it all still feels very real. 
 It was, in essence, a very radical sense of being known, by a complete stranger. It came as no surprise to me, therefore, when 20 years later I returned to Rome with the BBC to make a radio series on miracles and saw the deluge of letters and testimonies which had been sent to the office of the postulator, the man charged with the task of preparing the case of John Paul II for beatification and canonisation. 
 There was not time to go through them all, but a sample were read out to me. Some echoed sentiments very similar to what I had experienced, while others spoke of miraculous cures after people had sought his intercession following his death in 2005.
 John Paul II and canonisations
* Canonisation is the formal process of declaring someone a saint in the Catholic Church
 * During his papacy, John Paul II simplified this process
 * The number of miracles required for sainthood was dropped to two
 * The office of the Devil's Advocate, whose role was to knock down canonisation cases, was closed
 * John Paul II beatified and canonised more people than all previous popes combined
 What do I make of John Paul II now? He remains to me an enigma. As a historic figure one cannot doubt his tireless efforts to put the Roman Catholic Church on the map, his superstar status, most aptly captured by his Spitting Image puppet as a hairy-chested, gold medallion-wearing rock singer and the very real part he played in his native Poland, opposing Communism and the domino effect that led to the collapse of the Berlin Wall in 1989. 
 On the other hand, the life of Karol Wotyla is proof positive that saints are not flawless. He stands accused of overseeing a period in the Church which saw a creeping and unhealthy over-centralism. Powerful figures in the Vatican court were given undue influence with the result that the Church fell into disrepute. 
 Perhaps the worst issue was clerical sex abuse and the case of Father Marcial Maciel, founder of the wealthy and influential Legion of Christ. Credible allegations of abuse against him were not examined. Critics said that he had backers in high places who stalled enquiries. 
 Only after Pope John Paul II 's death did the real truth emerge. He had fathered six children and abused scores of men and women. He was subsequently disciplined in 2006, but the episode remains a terrible blot on the papacy of John Paul II. The TV footage of the two men in close embrace send shivers down the spine of even his closest and most fervent supporters.
 The fact remains that men and women of exceptional holiness who are inspirational figures and remarkable teachers are not perfect. Blind spots can dog the virtuous as well as practitioners of vice. Those who testify to John Paul II's occasional bursts of temper and stubbornness remind us that character flaws can easily co-exist alongside the truly extraordinary. 
 But in the end, I can't unmake my own personal history. I know many of the facts and claims around this man's papacy and how he remains a controversial figure in many people's eyes. But for those two minutes back in 1993, I truly believe I was in the grip of something utterly transcendent, that "quickened" me to the bone. 
 It's a memory that acts to sustain my own faith when I wonder whether there really is any sense of ultimate meaning to our earthly existence. And yes, it makes me feel at the same time blessed - and yet also a little fearful of what lies beyond.
