Ceramics could be the key to providing soldiers with lighter and more effective body armour, according to a British research team attracting interest from the MoD.
 "Most people are familiar with ceramics in the house - your plates, mugs and possibly your toilet," says material scientist Dr Hywel Jones of Sheffield Hallam University.
 The ceramics he hopes to use in body armour are in some ways similar being hard, light and brittle, but they are specialised versions known as engineering or technical ceramics.
 "Diamond is obviously the hardest material that most people are familiar with," says Jones, pointing out that ceramics fall only just below diamond. "They can be extremely hard compared to metals.
 "A bullet is essentially a piece of metal, so if you can put a piece of something very hard in front of a bullet, even though it will crack and it will fracture during the impact, it will actually start to stop that bullet."
 To keep the ceramic armour in place it is inserted into layers of kevlar. Upon impact, the bullet will shatter the ceramic, turning it into powder, but by doing so it absorbs the shock of the bullet.
 	"
 The ceramic fragments actually wear the bullet away"
 "The energy is dissipated not through bending like it does in metals, but through shattering," says Dr Jones.
 "After the ceramic has failed, because it's all still there but now in smaller fragments, it actually wears the bullet away as it continues to penetrate because it's now a very hard powder.
 The lightness of ceramics, half the weight of the same volume of steel, also make them suitable for the battlefield, says Dr Jones.
 "That's a massive advantage, especially if you're a troop and you have to carry this thing around with you all day in your clothing. The lightness is a critical property."
 The technology has undergone ballistic testing by the Ministry of Defence (MoD), and Dr Jones, a principal researcher at MERI, has been awarded a Royal Society Industrial Fellowship to spend two years developing the armour.
 He is working with ceramics consultant Dr Anthony Pick to develop the materials. The work is being carried out by XeraCarb, a spin-out business created by Sheffield Hallam to take its technology into production.
 They have produced a low-density composite ceramic which is mainly silicon carbide. Its manufacture requires lower furnace temperatures than similar materials, making it more energy efficient and cheaper to produce.
 "We're trying to make an effective, lightweight ceramic. We're trying to do that in the UK. And we're trying to do it within a cost the MoD can afford," he says.
 However, moulding the material into suitable body shapes has been a challenge for the team.
 "We looked at a composite ceramic combining the properties of two already well known systems," says Dr Jones, "trying to make something which is as good as an armour, is potentially lighter for the same stopping power, but also can be made easily into curved shapes.
 What are ceramics?
* Ceramics have traditionally been made by heating clay to high temperatures to create brick, porcelain or tiles
 * Modern ceramics are often precisely engineered to exploit key properties such as resistance to wear, heat and electricity
 * Common applications for ceramics include in bearings, insulation and spark plugs 
 "One of the problems with ceramics is sometimes you have to make them with applied pressure to get the thing to form. That limits the shapes you can make.
 "What we're trying to do is make a process that can make almost any shape, any curve, so you can imagine you want maybe some shoulder pieces or a part for a helmet, and the high curvatures that are involved there."
 Although ceramic armour may bring to mind visions of China's terracotta army, Dr Jones is convinced it can make a valuable contribution to protect the soldier of the future.
 "You can't cover the whole body in ceramic because it would be too stiff and too heavy," he says. "You just cover the vital organs, to give the highest survivability rate."
 Dr Hywel Jones was interviewed in a recent edition of Radio Wales' Science Cafe available on the BBC iPlayer.
