Related stories
 Who was Walter?
The main article and inset articles have been edited to provide relevant transcripts.
 Walter Tull's brief but incredible existence continues to serve as an inspiration to a whole new generation as they discover a tale of bravery and fortitude that deserves to be re-told and cherished. Because Walter was a true hero. This month we celebrate 100 years since he became a professional at Spurs as John Fennelly recounts the life and times of a man who only played 10 games for us yet warrants a unique place in our history. 
 It was a special day when a young Walter Tull walked through the gates at White Hart Lane on July 20, 1909. He was now facing a new life where he would succeed or fail on his own merits. He had just finished his four-year apprenticeship as a printer and had already impressed the Spurs management enough in 'A' and Reserve team games for them to take him on a tour to South America. 
 Now he had been asked to become a full-time professional footballer. He had his doubts as he had enjoyed his time as an amateur with Clapton and has originally planned to get a printing job on a newspaper...
 ...It was an opportunity - and opportunities had been few in the early life of Walter Tull. 
 By the end of this day he would be £10 better off. That was the maximum signing on fee allowed and that in itself showed how keen we were to sign him. He was also on a wage of £4 a week... 
 ...He had just become the nation's first black professional outfield player. 
 As the Daily Chronicle reported on September 13 that year: "Such perfect coolness…and such accuracy of strength in passing. He defeated (defenders) by side touches and side steps worthy of a professional boxer. Tull is very good indeed…"
 He scored his first goal against Bradford City a week later but then lost his place and played 16 games for the Reserves. The following season was to be his last at the Lane... 
 ...But it is known that we coveted Northampton Town defender Charlie Brittan, then rated as possibly the best right-back in the Southern League, and when we made a move for him, wily Town manager Herbert Chapman demanded Tull as part of the deal and paid 'a heavy transfer fee' into the bargain. 
 So, by October, 1911, he was a Northampton player...
 ...Walter switched positions to wing-half and went on to play 110 senior games for the Cobblers. Rangers were subsequently reported to have opened negotiations to sign him. 
 But by now an even bigger challenge was looming - a world war, and Tull's instant response was typical. 
 On December 21, 1914, he became the first Northampton player to join the 17th (1st Football) Battalion of the Middlesex Regiment, nicknamed 'The Diehards.' The infantry Battalion was commanded by Major Frank Buckley, ex- Manchester United and Aston Villa, later to famously manage Wolves. 
 He served with another ex-Spurs player, his predecessor in the club's forward line, Vivian Woodward. Walter's brother William also enlisted. 
 After training on Salisbury Plain, during which time he played as a guest for Fulham, the battalion because part of the 33rd Division, 100th Brigade and was sent to France on November 18, 1915. Soon half the battalion was on the front line and, in January at Festubert, Woodward, already a captain, was wounded. 
 Still Tull was impatient for action. Front line duty last a month or more but Walter did not enjoy the wait when pushed back into the safety zone. As he wrote in one letter home: "it is a very monotonous life out here when one is supposed to be resting and most of the boys prefer the excitement of the trenches." 
 The 1st Football fought in the infamous Battle of the Somme, between July- November, 1916. Almost 20,000 allied troops were killed on the first day, the worst ever in British military history, and in one action by the battalion itself, just 79 men returned from 400. 
 By now a sergeant, Tull was invalided out of France with trench fever and on recovery was sent to the officer cadet training school at Gailes, Scotland. While he was away the 17th suffered such heavy casualties in the Battle of Arleux that the battalion was disbanded. 
 Walter was commissioned as second lieutenant on May 30, 1917 - contrary to regulations he had now become the first British-born black combat officer in the British Army. He achieved this in the face of the 1914 Manual of Military Law, which specifically excluded black people from exercising 'actual command.' 
 Tull returned to France to fight in the second Battle of the Somme and was leading his men in 'No Man's Land' when his short life ended. He died near Favreuil, in the Pas de Calais, on March 25, 1918, at the age of 29. He was reported to have been shot through the head and died instantly. 
 So popular was he that two soldiers attempted to carry him back to their own lines but German soldiers were advancing so they had to leave him. His body was never recovered. 
 Walter's commanding officer broke the news of his death in a letter to elder brother Edward, saying 'how popular he was throughout the battalion. He was brave and conscientious…the battalion and company have lost a faithful officer, and personally I have lost a friend.' 
 Edward was devastated, describing it as "the worst moment of my life." 
 Walter had served and survived for almost the entire duration of the war and was posthumously awarded the British War and Victory Medal. He was also recommended for the Military Cross but never received it. 
 He has no grave, only an inscription on the memorial wall at the Fauborg-Amiens war cemetery and memorial at Arras. 
 Yet his memory and inspiration live on - as they certainly should. As a pioneer and role model, his merit transcends football as the ultimate example of how to triumph in adversity: to refuse to be pigeon-holed and follow your own path no matter what obstacles you encounter. 
 Had he lived who knows what Walter Tull would have gone on to achieve. 
 *Grateful thanks to authour Phillip Vasili and Spurs official historian Andy Porter for their help. 
 To get a better perspective on how tough life was for Walter Tull, we take a look back at the determination - but the ultimate premature demise - of his father Daniel and of the Tull family's early days together. 
 Walter's father Daniel was a carpenter from Barbados, the son of Anna and William Tull who were born as slaves on a local plantation. He had one brother and one sister. 
 With slavery abolished in 1833, Daniel left for St Lucia in 1873 where wages were higher. He had been educated to a good standard by missionaries and in 1876 took the long sea journey to England, settling ay Folkestone where he married local woman Alice Palmer whose family worked on the land. 
 They regularly attended Grace Hill Wesleyan Chapel and the 1891 census lists the Tulls as living at 51 Walton Road, a working class area. 
 Walter Daniel John Tull was born on April 28, 1888. 
 Sadly, after four years together and five children, 42-year-old Alice died from cancer. Daniel quickly re-married Clara and the couple had one more child but then Daniel passed away just over two years later from heart disease. 
 Clara was aided by the Wesleyan Chapel who had good links with the London Children's Home and Orphanage run by a Methodist preacher in Bethnal Green. 
 It was decided Walter (nine) and elder brother Edward should be sent to the orphanage... 
 William, the eldest boy, was working and contributing seven shillings a week to the family and Cecelia, the eldest girl gained work as a domestic. Elsie (7) had the job of looking after baby Miriam while Clara took in washing to supplement the Poor Law parish relief she received. 
 Walter and Edward arrived at the home on February 24. Clara no longer had any rights over her two sons but she stayed in touch as best she could. She later re-married. 
 At the age of 14 Edward was sent to Glasgow. That was in November, 1900, when he was adopted by the Warnock family who had seen him on a fund-raising singing tour organised by the home. Subsequently Mr. Warnock, a dentist who dealt mainly with poorer people, trained Edward in his trade. 
 Edward graduated from the Royal Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons, Glasgow, in 1910, registering as a practising dentist in 1912. He took over the family practice when Mr. Warnock died. 
 Left behind, Walter spent seven years in a tough, cold, austere environment of the Home where he was apprenticed as a printer. He played for the orphanage football team at left-back and, at the recommendation of a friend, wrote to top local amateur side Clapton FC. 
 By October, 1908, just 10 weeks after sending that letter, Walter was in the first-team. Clapton won three cups in his debut campaign; Tull was described as 'catch of the season…and, four months after playing his first game for Clapton, we made our move.
