Every autumn for 100 years, an army of Scotswomen invaded the fishing communities of East Anglia. 
 Known as herring girls or fisher girls, the women from the Western Isles, Shetland and eastern Scotland travelled along the British coast working as gutters and packers. Each September from the mid-1800s they descended on the ports of Great Yarmouth and Lowestoft for around 12 weeks at a time.
 While many women in this era were tied to their communities, the herring girls followed the fishing fleet in search of work, often leaving young children at home to do so.
 	"
 The girls had to work in the open with the haar coming off the river, the icy sleet coming in off the North Sea, fog rolling in and gales of wind"
 Barbara Buchan of the Fraserburgh Heritage Society recalls, "It happened to a lot of families because it was the only way they could earn a living, especially during the lean years in the '20s and '30s. It was sometimes the woman gutting that put the food on the table". 
 When Great Yarmouth's herring industry was at its peak in the early 1900s, 10,000 seasonal workers were welcomed into the town - of that number 5,000 were Scotswomen. 
 As the East Anglian herring season began, several trains a day would leave Scotland for the ports with upwards of 100 fish workers on board each one.
 Eighty-one-year-old Ethel Reid, a former gutter, first made the long journey south in the 1950s. "There was a special train left Fraserburgh [in North East Scotland] and it picked up people all the way down to Yarmouth and Lowestoft," she says.
 When the women arrived at their destinations they were committed to working long, uncomfortable hours, often from 7am until 9pm, or whenever the day's catch had been dealt with. 
 Barbara Buchan travelled with her mother and recalls the quayside settings, "It was much harder work in Yarmouth and Lowestoft because it was autumn and into winter".
 Gone girls: remembered in song, poetry and photographs 
 "Down south the curing yards weren't covered. They had no protection overhead so [the girls] had to work in the open with the haar coming off the river, the icy sleet coming in off the North Sea, fog rolling in and gales of wind. Sometimes the women would actually faint with the cold."
 The women worked in crews of three. Two gutted the herrings while the third packed the fish into barrels.
 Dressed in their trademark uniform of floral pinafore, long rubber apron and rubber boots, the gutters had to wrap their fingers with cloth, or 'cloots', and tie them with string for protection against their sharp knives.
 Dr Gillian Munro researched the herring girls for the School of Scottish Studies. "Some [women] claimed that they could gut a fish a second," she says. 
 "Round about them would be men - coopers and lads that would be taking away the barrels and bringing new ones. You can imagine the noise of the seagulls and the smell and the fun and banter that they would have with the men."
 Singing kept their spirits up. "Some of the women would be singing hymns, other folk would be singing common songs of the time," says Dr Munro. "The girls from the west coast, Gaelic speakers, they would be singing religious songs and other Gaelic songs."
 Working alongside the gutters was the packer, the third member of the crew. It was her job to fill barrels with the gutted fish. Each barrel would hold 700-1000 herrings. Presentation was important and a barrel filled incorrectly would lose the women money.
 [The packer] would pick the best of the herring and she would pack the first tier on the bottom of the barrel, says Barbara Buchan.
 "Each tier was packed in a different direction so that it formed a spiral and there was rough salt spread on each tier," she says.
 Former gutter Margaret Strachan recalls her own crew: "One day we were busy the whole day and [filled] 110 barrels. Now, we were slow because we were only learners so you can imagine what some of them had [it could have been] 130 barrels". 
 What work was available for women in the 1800s?
 The Scots herring girls began working in East Anglia in the mid-1800s. Find out what other jobs for women were available at that time. 
 While in England, the women lodged in guesthouses, where they were welcomed by local landladies, according to Lowestoft historian and author Ian Robb. 
 "A lot of houses in Yarmouth and Lowestoft were also boarding houses, and to make ends meet, certainly during the depression in the '30s and after the war, a little bit of extra pocket money came in very handy."
 But the nature of the womens' work meant they were treated differently to other guests.
 "They stuck them in separate rooms away from everybody else," says Ian Robb.
 "They had to leave all their boots and their clothing outside. Herring processing is very messy and very smelly."
 The herring boom days peaked before the First World War, but the girls continued to find work in the town until the 1960s. However, dwindling stocks meant that they increasingly found themselves without much gutting to do.
 Margaret Strachan remembers, "We'd been in Lowestoft and sitting in the Denes for two or three days without any herring [landings]. It just grew scarce and it wasn't worth going."
 It is now over 50 years since the mass migration of herring girls to England ended but they are remembered with affection in Lowestoft and Great Yarmouth, according to Ian Robb. 
 "Elderly women remember their parents and their grandparents boarding the Scots girls. There are a lot of fond memories." 
 Find out more about the role of women in the fishing industry on Our Story, broadcast on BBC Radio Scotland on Monday 2 December at 13:30. The programme will be available on the iPlayer afterwards.
