More from Food
* Food myth 
 * Supermarket struggles 
 * Sit down dinners 
 * What is bunny chow? 
 There are now so many food industry awards, what difference does winning one make to a business?
 Nominations for the BBC's Food and Farming Awards open this week (on Sunday 5 January) with a variety of categories from food market to drinks producer. 
 They join a plethora of new and established awards. These range from small, regional competitions to famous highlights such as the Guild of Fine Food's Great Taste Awards for speciality food and drink; the Michelin Guide's elusive stars given to the world's best restaurants; and the annual Observer Food Monthly Awards which celebrate the food world from best Sunday lunch to best blog. 
 Calum Richardson, owner of The Bay Fish and Chips, Stonehaven, Aberdeenshire, had been trying for 15 years to win The National Fish &amp; Chip Awards before he finally reeled in the big catch in 2013.
 He immediately saw his sales shoot up. 
 Michelin-starred chefs' recipes:
 "It made that January - when Stuart [the shop manager] got back... like summer-time instantly. Folk were queuing in the street. In the snow," he recalls.
 "To win the main award there, you know, that can double your turnover." 
 Over the years he has been nominated for a number of other, smaller awards. 
 "Some of them I do more for recognition than anything else... to get recognition from people that you adhere to and admire, rather than a financial benefit."
 Andy Hayler, restaurant critic and regular guest on TV competition MasterChef, believes some restaurant industry awards are more credible than others. 
 Having eaten in every three star Michelin restaurant in the world, he says they are "the most credible" accolade in the restaurant industry. 
 He has had anecdotal reports of restaurateurs seeing a 20-30% increase in revenue after winning a coveted star.
 "To me the award thing is not about having the award it's about how credible is the award."
 Apart from Michelin stars, Mr Hayler says he doesn't take much notice of awards when choosing a top restaurant to eat in.
 "An awful lot of awards are dished out to restaurants now. There's a whole pile of award ceremonies."
 BBC Food and Farming Awards
 Are there now too many food awards up for grabs?
 "It can be a bit saturated," including in the fish and chip shop industry, says Calum Richardson.
 "The problem that you've got is some of the other ones that are out there, there's not really in-depth criteria like there is with the main competition."
 Many restaurant awards probably don't make a big difference to a restaurant's revenue according to Andy Hayler, as customers won't know how significant they are.
 "Unless you're really in the thick if it, you don't really know which ones are kind of meaningful and which ones are not which I think is a big problem."
 Chasing a food award isn't purely about financial gain though.
 Laura Licata's Bath-based restaurant Nonna won Best Italian at the Bath Good Food Awards 2013 after a customer vote. The main difference she saw in her business was in terms of team morale.
 "There was a real buzz and genuine sense of elation and excitement amongst the whole team."
 "We had all worked very hard to make the restaurant a success so to receive recognition through the award was a huge boost."
 She says she has seen business improve too.
 "When taking bookings I always ask how people found out about us and a surprising number of people have made bookings after hearing about our award."
 Joanna Brennan left a career in speech therapy and set up a bakery with her dad.
 	"
 We're both new to this, I was a speech therapist"
 The Pump Street Bakery in Orford, Suffolk, was named joint winner in the "best producer" category at the BBC Food and Farming Awards, which encourages people to nominate their favourite, often little-known, local producers.
 "The whole village was rooting for us," says Ms Brennan.
 "My father and I don't come from a catering or baking background. We're both new to this, I was a speech therapist, he was an executive with IBM. And so to enter into a new business like this and to win an award, get this recognition, meant so much to us. It was a gratification and a justification that we had done the right thing."
 And after the award ceremony, new customers have travelled from further afield to visit the shop. 
 "We've also had customers who've come in… just because they've heard about us on the radio and people travelling quite a good distance because they've heard about us through this avenue, so that has been amazing for the business."
 Listen:
 Another previous winner - student Emily Boothroyd who runs Sutton Bonnington Farmers' Market, Nottinghamshire, for other students - even says winning changed her life.
 "The recognition that you could get from that, it's life-changing," she told BBC Radio 4's Food Programme. 
 "And I don't say that lightly because I decided as a result of the award and people hearing about what we'd achieved, that that could be a way for me to have a living." 
 Winning a significant industry award may set a food business apart from its competitors, but it is then up to savvy owners to spread the word to customers.
 "I've said this many times this year to people who are trying to win [the National Fish &amp; Chip Awards]. What it does, it cracks doors open. You have to push them further," says Mr Richardson.
 One question still remains - what does it take for a food business or producer to be "the best"?
 Laura Licata offers her insight: "I think the fact we are a small family-run restaurant and that we insist upon everything being cooked fresh from scratch."
 For Calum Richardson: "I think I just stood by what I believed in. I didn't try and copy what anyone else was doing. I just believed in sticking to my ethos of sustainability and using local produce."
