The Reformation and the religious upheaval which spread across Europe 450 years ago saw Scotland adopt its own austere form of Protestantism, spurred on by one man.
 In May 1559, clergyman John Knox delivered a sermon which brought violent mobs onto the streets of Perth. Catholic churches were vandalised, icons and relics smashed, altars broken and walls whitewashed. 
 "His pulpit oratory, his ability as a preacher, seems to have been quite remarkable and he did have a big impact on those who heard him preach", says Professor Roger Mason of the University of St Andrews.
 Knox was preaching against the idolatry of the Catholic mass, claiming it directly opposed the word of God.
 Knox is often characterised as a dour, humourless figure with an intense dislike of women. 
 	"
 To promote a woman to bear rule, superiority, dominion, or empire above any realm, nation, or city, is repugnant to nature"
 A year earlier he had published a pamphlet, The First Blast of the Trumpet against the Monstrous Regiment of Women, which rails against the rule of female monarchs and Catholics in particular. It was inspired largely by the rule of Mary of Guise as Regent in Scotland and another Catholic, Mary Tudor in England.
 Knox's apparent misogyny can be explained by the religious devotion of the time. 
 In Scotland, as elsewhere, religion played a key part in the lives of ordinary people. It was important to them that they lived piously to ensure their place in heaven.
 Men - not women - were believed to be God's agents, and kings were divinely appointed by Him. For a woman to be appointed Queen was unnatural and therefore against God's will. 
 Knox argued that: "To promote a woman to bear rule, superiority, dominion, or empire above any realm, nation, or city, is repugnant to nature; contumely to God, a thing most contrary to his revealed will and approved ordinance; and finally, it is the subversion of good order, of all equity and justice." 
 Over 400 years later, in a move which would have appalled Knox, a woman holds the post of Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. Women have been eligible to hold ministerial posts in the Kirk since 1968; the first female Moderator was appointed in 2004. 
 The third female Moderator, Right Reverend Lorna Hood believes the Church of Scotland is indebted to Knox. 
 "You have to realise that he was a man of his time", says Rev Hood. "I know his views [on women] would not be acceptable to the vast majority of Scottish Presbyterians today.
 "He's part of the history of the Church and we owe a huge amount to him and the way he fought for Protestantism."
 "[Knox's] dream for Scotland was that every parish would have an adequate church building, a manse, a minister, a school and a schoolmaster. He was particularly strong on education, particularly strong on an educated ministry, and educated lay people within a congregation," she says. 
 Knox co-wrote the guidelines of the new Church, known as the First Book of Discipline. 
 Who were the 'monstrous regiment' of women?
* Mary I of England - daughter of Henry VIII and Catherine of Aragon. She was known as 'Bloody Mary' for her persecution of Protestants.
 * Mary of Guise - a Catholic Frenchwoman who married James V of Scotland. After his death she ruled as regent from 1554 until 1560. Mother of Mary, Queen of Scots.
 * Elizabeth I of England - the 'Virgin Queen' ruled for over 40 years, overseeing a Golden Age in England. 
 * Mary, Queen of Scots - the Catholic queen of Protestant Scotland. She led a tumultuous life eventually abdicating and fleeing to England for safety. Considered a danger to her cousin Elizabeth I's reign she was held prisoner for 19 years and eventually beheaded.
 "He was deeply committed to a particular view of the Christian religion and to its implementation which called for very strict discipline, adherence to the word of God as revealed in scripture. What we would call a fundamentalist," says Professor Mason.
 "That principle of a school in every parish is certainly there in the Book of Discipline and it's a very praiseworthy objective. But there were actually a lot of schools in Scotland before the Reformation." 
 The importance of educating the young is stressed and has led to the belief that Knox and the Reformation are responsible for widespread literacy in Scotland.
 "You have to bear in mind that Knox and his fellow reformers were really using schooling as a means of instilling the basics of their version of the Christian religion from the earliest possible age. What they were actually learning to do in schools was to read the Bible 
 "So it's not necessarily the kind of liberal development that we like now to think of it. It's actually, in some respects, quite repressive."
 A former priest, Haddington-born Knox converted to Protestantism and spent his life fighting for a reformed church. 
 Following the murder of Scotland's Cardinal Beaton in 1546 by a group of Protestant lords, Knox, as their religious leader, was sentenced to serve 19 months as a French galley slave.
 On his release, he lived and preached in England.
 In 1553, when Mary Tudor was crowned, England again became a Catholic country. Protestants were persecuted and Knox left for the continent.
 This was a period when Northern Europe was swept by a demand for reform in the Catholic Church. Many saw the Church as corrupt, believing it had strayed from the teachings of the Bible. 
 While some demanded the Catholic Church be cleansed of corruption, others wished to form their own church. 
 Living in Frankfurt, Knox joined a congregation where, with others, he called for a comprehensive Reformation of the Church.
 "What they were arguing about was how extensive reform had to be in order to conform with scripture," explains Professor Mason. 
 Who was the man behind Europe's religious reformation?
 German theologian, Martin Luther, was a key figure in Europe's religious reformation. Angered by the corruption he found in the Catholic Church, in 1517 he published his '95 Theses' attacking papal abuses and the sale of 'indulgences' - promised remission from punishments for sin. 
 Luther posted the '95 Theses' onto a church door in Wittenberg. From there copies were circulated throughout Germany and the rest of Europe. As a result many worshipers began to turn away from the established Church.
 "The English moderates - who are really the founders of the Anglican Church - were much more moderate in their views than were radicals like Knox." 
 Knox and the radicals lost the fight, and he left Frankfurt for Geneva where he wrote The First Blast of the Trumpet.
 It was a badly-timed publication. In the same year, Mary Tudor died and her half-sister Elizabeth took the throne. England became Protestant once more. 
 Exiled Protestants returned, but Elizabeth had been outraged by Knox's comments in First Blast of the Trumpet and refused him permission to enter England. 
 In Knox's absence, the movement for a Scottish Reformation had gathered pace with a group of nobles known as the Lords of the Congregation taking the lead. 
 Returning to Scotland in 1559 Knox joined forces with the group. His powerful sermon in Perth sparked a wave of destruction.
 The Catholic regent, Mary of Guise called for assistance from France. Protestant forces marched on Edinburgh. 
 Forces from England sent in support of the rebellion clashed with French ships in Leith.
 The violence came to an end when Mary died in 1560 and a peace treaty was signed. 
 A provisional government was established, the authority of the Pope was renounced and mass declared illegal. 
 'Gung-ho fundamentalist'
 Whether the Reformation would have succeeded without John Knox is impossible to tell.
 	"
 His pulpit oratory, his ability as a preacher, seems to have been quite remarkable"
 "To some extent the leaders of the rebellion in 1559/60 found him as much of a liability as an asset," says Mason. 
 "They're not the gung-ho fundamentalists that Knox is. They want to negotiate with Elizabeth and England to get help and support and the last thing they want is somebody like Knox sounding off. 
 "The Reformation settlement in Scotland is a good deal more radical than what happened in England; the kind of Church that was established is much more austere, much more scripture based than the Anglican Church. But it still wasn't really as thoroughly reformed as Knox wanted it to be." 
 John Knox continued to preach until his death in 1572. 
 More than 400 years later, Lorna Hood was reminded of his influence as she entered the Assembly Hall in Edinburgh alongside her female senior chaplain to take up the post of Moderator of the Church of Scotland. 
 "There's a huge statue of Knox so you can't fail to see him on the way past and realise how important he is within the Church. 
 "We had a look at one another and a wee wry smile, "He'll be birlin' [in his grave]!"
 That grave is now marked by a plaque and concealed under a car park at St Giles' Church in the centre of Edinburgh. It is an unassuming resting place for the man whose actions helped shape modern Scotland. 
 As Roger Mason says, "[the consequence of rebellion was] … a new diplomatic as well as religious settlement which turned Scotland from being a Roman Catholic country, allied to France, to a Protestant country allied to England. 
 "And Knox was very much at the heart of that revolution".
