In the shadow of Manchester's gothic cathedral, there is a new temporary one-storey building made of timber.
 For the next nine months this will be home to the local congregation while their usual home has a new environmentally-friendly underground heating system installed.
 The cathedral decided not to relocate to another church, instead adopting a more radical solution they believe is in keeping with the local tradition of reaching out to the wider local community.
 C of E explainer
* The Church of England is part of the Anglican Communion, which is a worldwide family of churches in more than 160 different countries
 * The Queen is the Supreme Governor of the church, theologically Jesus is the head
 * Henry VIII started the process of creating the Church of England after his split with the Pope in the 1530s
 * The Church of England also has a law-making role in Britain. Twenty-six bishops sit in the House of Lords
 "The cathedral is an active place of worship, but it is also to support the needs of the city," said Anthony O'Connor, director of fundraising and development for the cathedral.
 Last year, the cathedral took part in the inaugural 'Dig the City' in the summer of 2012. It is an urban garden festival, that sees green spaces popping up all over Manchester city centre.
 And the cathedral has supported a number of other community projects, including the Booth Centre that feeds up to 120 of the city's homeless everyday. It also has been a musical venue, hosting Elbow and Alicia Keys in recent years.
 Engaging with the wider population is also a central part of the church's history explains Dr Terry Wyke of Manchester Metropolitan University, a history which goes back before 1847 when what had been known as the Collegiate Church became Manchester Cathedral.
 "It is often forgotten that the Collegiate Church in the early 19th Century held impressive music festivals attracting the international superstars of the day. 
 "These were important social events that set out to raise money for local charities and hospitals," he said.
 The church had also been the venue for the first public mass meeting for the abolition of slavery in 1787.
 It was held by Thomas Clarkson who dedicated the rest of his life to ending slavery. Twenty years later, thanks to his efforts among many others, the slave trade was abolished in the British Empire in 1807.
 The changing name
* The present church is built within the precincts of the Baron's Court, beside the Manor House (which is now part of Chetham's Music School)
 * In 1421 the parish church becomes a Collegiate Foundation, dedicated to St Mary, St Denys and St George
 * The Diocese of Manchester is created in 1847 and the church becomes the Cathedral Church
 * The original cathedral has survived intensive bombing during the Blitz and the nearby 1996 IRA bombing 
 While other growing cities, including Liverpool, used some of their industrial wealth to build large new cathedrals, why was Manchester content to adapt its medieval church?
 "In spite of some exceptionally dynamic clergy the cathedral is losing its influence during the 19th and definitely in the 20th Century as a religious centre, a political centre and also as a social and cultural centre," Dr Wyke said.
 As well as Anglicanism, Manchester had a non-conformist and also a secular radical identity.
 	"
 A lot of people go to our other cathedrals, whether that's the Theatre of Dreams, Manchester City or the Arndale Centre"
 "There were campaigns for political and economic rights, incidents that have become part of a popular history of Manchester as a progressive, even radical city, but when you dig into them they are a little more complex," said Dr Wyke.
 Manchester was the world's first industrial city. Cotton mills boomed in the 19th Century and were magnets to rural dwellers looking for work. The city, nicknamed "Cottonopolis", became a melting pot of multiculturalism. 
 A stone's throw from the cathedral is the Chetham's Library, where Friedrich Engels and Karl Marx would meet in the summer of 1845. Marx's "The Manifesto of the Communist Party" is one of the most influential books in history. 
 In today's Manchester as then, there are rival secular worlds competing for the people's attentions.
 "A lot of people go to our other cathedrals, whether that's the Theatre of Dreams, Manchester City or the Arndale Centre. 
 "And they are used to what greets them in that space. The cathedral doors are big, built to the glory of God, I suppose it can be intimidating to some."
 With the new pop-up cathedral, no matter how temporary, Mr O'Connor hopes to provide a welcome to all.
 "It is like Manchester cathedral's church hall," he said.
 "Hopefully people will walk in off the street. Whether a person of faith or no faith, this is your space".
