* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 1914 is an important year. It is important not just in Britain, but across the world. 1914 is remembered in France and Germany, Italy and Austria, Russia, Turkey and India. It is remembered in Africa and the Caribbean, Australia and New Zealand and in the United States and Canada too. 1914 is the year that World War One began. People then called it the Great War.
 A hundred years have passed since 1914. But we still remember that war. Today, we call it World War One. We stop. We think. We take time out of our lives and bring to mind those people who fought and suffered and died in a terrible war a hundred years ago. We also remember the people caught up in World War Two and other wars that have happened since World War Two ended in 1945. 
 'Remembrance' is not a word we use every day. In everyday life, we say we 'remember' something like a friend's birthday. Things around us help us to remember people or places. Photos remind us of a party, or maybe a holiday. Old toys or clothes remind us of who gave them to us, or why we liked them when we were younger.
 But 'Remembrance' is bigger than that. 'Remembrance' is something that can be shared. That is why many people wear poppies as November the eleventh draws near. The poppy is a sign of remembrance. It shows we have not forgotten what happened long ago, to people in our own and other people's families. 
 There are two special days when we remember all those who suffered in war. Does anyone know what those days are called and when they happen?
 Remembrance Sunday is the Sunday nearest to the eleventh of November. It is different from Armistice Day - sometimes called 'Poppy Day' or 'Remembrance Day' - which always falls on the eleventh of November itself. You may have seen news reports about Armistice Day on television. Some of you may have been to gatherings or church services on Remembrance Sunday or Armistice Day. Many cub, Scout and Guide groups attend.
 But what is so important about November the eleventh? Does anyone know?
 November is the eleventh month of the year. And it was at the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month that World War One ended back in 1918. At eleven o'clock on a Monday morning the guns fell silent. Every year, Remembrance Day reminds us of this moment. After four years of war, it must have been suddenly very quiet...
 At eleven o'clock on Remembrance Day there is a two-minute silence. Ours is not a silent world. There is noise all around us. So silence is special. Silence is good for remembering. It helps us to stop thinking about what is going on right now, or what we are going to do next. Silence gives us time to reflect.
 On the first Remembrance Day in 1919, people gathered in cities, towns and villages to remember all those who had fought in World War One. It was also known as Armistice Day. An armistice is a ceasefire, when the shooting in a battle stops.
 (Play the 'Remembrance' video clip.)
 People wanted to remember this war because it was so terrible. Soldiers, airmen and sailors often get forgotten when peace comes. But after the 1914 to 1918 war, people did not want to forget. They wanted to remember. 
 But why do you think we still mark Remembrance Day one hundred years later?
 On Remembrance Day we remember soldiers, service men and women who died or were wounded. Many soldiers in World War One were very young. They were still teenagers - the same age as some of your big brothers - when they left their homes and families. Many were killed. Even more suffered injuries that changed their lives. Families lost sons, brothers, fathers, uncles. It made people very sad. Remembrance is about understanding how we cope with sadness and loss.
 Many people wear poppies on Remembrance Day. This video explains why. 
 (Play the 'Poppies' video clip.)
 The poppy shows we remember. We remember a war that began a hundred years ago. We remember people caught up in other wars, all over the world. We remember that good can come out of bad. And enemies can become friends. 
 Remembrance Day is a time to be sad, but it is also a time of hope. The hope of a better, more peaceful world for everyone. 
 These words are spoken on Remembrance Day. I will read them to you. 
 Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn. 
 We will remember them."
 Now let's read these words together.
