A painting by Turner, voted Britain's favourite, captures one of the most important developments in marine history, when the age of sail gave way to the age of steam.
 When JMW Turner first exhibited his masterpiece, The Fighting Temeraire, in London in 1839, many of his contemporaries assumed it was to record the decline of British naval power. 
 It shows the veteran of the Battle of Trafalgar being towed up the Thames by a steam tug on its way to the scrap yard. The painter had used considerable artistic license to show the ship travelling east so he could include a spectacular setting sun. 
 But while Turner strove to evoke a sense of loss for these old sailing war dogs, the painter had also sought to capture the dawn of a new steam-powered era.
 "Steamships shrank the globe," Dr Robert Blyth, curator at the National Maritime Museum explains.
 "It was far quicker to travel by steam, though not because the ships were particularly faster in the mid-19th century. But their great advantage was they could travel in a straight line, rather than tack in zig-zags against the wind, and keep going even when there was no wind."
 TURNER AS MAN OF SCIENCE
 It took a sail boat around five weeks to cross the Atlantic, but in 1838 - the year Turner painted the Temeraire - The Great Western, Isambard Kingdom Brunel's great steamship, managed the journey in just 15 days.
 By this time smaller steamboats had become a regular sight chugging along Britain's rivers and along the coast, ferrying passengers and mail. These early steamers were propelled by paddle wheels and powered by coal.
 Enterprising private companies began to set their sights further afield and by 1842 the Royal Mail Steam Packet Company was carrying mail from England to the West Indies twice a month.
 Within a few decades, steam power would transform the Navy, trigger great engineering innovations and lead to the rapid expansion of seaports like Glasgow and Liverpool.
 "Britain utterly dominated shipbuilding and built more steamships than the rest of the world together," Dr Blyth says.
 "It significantly helped our balance of trade. By the end of the 19th Century most of the world's produce was being carried on British-built ships."
 Along with the railways and electric telegraph, steamships were at the heart of the communication network essential to the expanding Victorian Empire.
 The transition to steam ships was not smooth. For one thing sailing ships used clean and free wind-power, whereas steamships used coal, which was expensive and produced an enormous amount of filth.
 "Early engines on steamships were spectacularly inefficient," Dr Blyth says.
 "They needed huge amounts of coal and either had to hop between fuelling stations or be built on a massive scale so that they could carry enough on board."
 Early steamships operated using paddle wheels that became partly submerged and impossible to steer in rough seas. They also had an alarming tendency to backfire.
 "Steam engine used highly dangerous, experimental technology," Dr Blyth says.
 "They relied on high pressures using boilers and cylinders. If there were impurities in the coal or water they could explode."
 For many years, steam was only used to provide auxiliary power on the Royal Navy's sailing ships as well as to power the tugs that would pull them in and out of harbours. Steamships were not viewed as reliable or practical enough. However, engineering advances soon changed this.
 Full steam ahead
* 1802: First 'practical' steamboat, Charlotte Dundas, tows barges along the Forth and Clyde Canal to Glasgow
 * 1812: The Comet, travels along same canal and is first commercially successful steamboat 
 * 1814: Steamboat Elise is first to cross the channel
 * 1815: Steamboats start travelling on the Thames
 * 1827: Battle of Navarino last to be fought by Royal Navy with just sailing ships
 * 1830s: Three major shipping lines founded
 * 1838: Brunel's Great Western makes first voyage from Bristol to New York 
 * 1840s: Screw-propellers replaced paddle wheels to propel boat forwards
 * 1870: Triple Expansion Engine introduced that meant less coal needed
 * 1880s: Steam turbine developed, increasing speeds
 In 1843 HMS Rattler became the first warship to adopt a new type of propulsion known as the screw propeller. 
 Two years later she demonstrated her superiority over ships with paddle wheels by winning a tug of war against the HMS Alecto. 
 The Crimean War of 1853-1856 led to the development of ships with iron cladding, to protect them from new explosive shells which were found to rip through wooden hulls. 
 Britain's news steam-powered ships also had a massive strategic advantage as they could move upwind of enemy sailing ships. New, more efficient engines, also encouraged the changeover to steam.
 With steamships came a new type of sailor - stokers and marine engineers, who had a specific task to perform. Their arrival ruffled the Navy command who didn't know where to place them in the traditional hierarchy.
 "Up until then sailors had been generalists - they knew how to do everything on the ships," Dr Blyth says.
 "The older chaps complained that sailors no longer knew how to sail and were losing their connection with the sea."
 Turner as a chronicler of his age could not have failed to notice steam power was in the ascendant. It was surely no coincidence that he chose to paint the Temeraire with ghostly sails furled along her yards, when in reality she had no rigging when she was towed down the Thames. 
 "By the late 1830s the writing was on the wall for sail ships. For while they were still being refined and developed their field of operations was narrowing all the time, while new horizons were opening up for steam," Dr Blyth says.
 In the end, speed and reliability would win the day for steam. Perhaps Turner, who painted his steam tug chugging determinedly towards the viewer, had realised exactly that.
