The following teachers' notes provide ways for pupils to actively imagine and investigate toys, games and children's entertainment during World War One. 
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Toys and games
 Challenge pupils to research and develop a wall display with sketches of toys, and a timeline showing when they were first made. Construction sets such as Meccano, modelling clay such as Plasticine and teddy bears all first appeared in toyshops during the early 1900s.
 The class could try games and pastimes that children in World War One would have played. Marbles, hopscotch, leapfrog and spinning tops were popular. Pupils might also try pressing flowers or cutting and pasting images into scrapbooks.
 If a set is available get pupils to use a construction set to make a model of a tank or plane from World War One. Otherwise, they could design and build their own World War One model, using craft materials to hand, such as paper, card, straws etc.
 Compare how children played at home during the early 1900s with how they play today. The class could discuss what they think the children growing up during World War One would make of contemporary pastimes. What are the biggest differences they might notice? 
 Many World War One children did craft work, such as sewing and knitting. Introduce children to the art of embroidery, making a simple cross-stitch sampler. Or they might try knitting a scarf. Many children in 1914-1918 made warm knitwear to send to soldiers in the trenches. 
 Music halls and cinema
 You could talk to the class about the music hall and its place in popular entertainment. Cinema was coming, but was still silent, so for live entertainment, there was nothing to beat the theatre and the music hall. 
 Children could research photos of stars of the time and search online for recordings of music hall stars such as Marie Lloyd, Vesta Tilley, Harry Champion, Mark Sheridan and Little Titch. Children could try staging their own version of a classic early 1900s music hall.
 School Radio
 Commemorate the outbreak of WW1 by staging our specially-written play 'Archie Dobson's War'.
 Try learning some World War One songs, including those sung by soldiers. Lyrics and recordings can be found online. Pupils could learn wartime songs, such as 'Pack Up Your Troubles', 'It's a Long Way to Tipperary' and 'Keep the Home Fires Burning'. After a sing-along, ask the pupils how the songs made them feel and which song they thought was the most inspiring. Pupils could give their reasons and take a vote.
 Silent movie clips
 Explain that cinemas of this period showed only silent films (no soundtrack). Pupils could view a short clip of an early silent film, perhaps one starring Charlie Chaplin. 
 You might challenge the children to use percussion to provide a suitable soundtrack for the movie. Pupils could rehearse their work and then perform their accompaniment at a school assembly. 
 How does music help to tell the story of a silent film? Invite children to imagine what it felt like going to the cinema in 1914 and how the experience of viewing a silent movie is different from watching a film today. 
 Useful links
 You could get pupils to look at comic books of the period. The University of Oxford has a selection of comics of the time as part of its First World War Digital Poetry Archive.
 Pupils could look through the comics to find evidence about the lives of the children who first read them. For instance, one group could look for images of toys, another might search for clothes and another for houses and home furnishings. Pupils could be encouraged to think about why school stories are so popular in the comics. 
 Reading
 Comics were also used for propaganda in wartime. When the children are familiar with a wartime comic like 'The Rainbow', challenge them to draw their own comic strips. Their cartoons should match the style and content of the comic and use characters familiar to readers in the 1900s. 
 You could devise a World War One propaganda message for children to work into their comic strip stories. For example, can they design a story that would have encouraged readers to knit socks and scarves for the troops?
 Read extracts of a popular novel of the period. You might choose J.M. Barrie's 'Peter Pan' or E. Nesbit's 'The Phoenix and the Carpet' for example. Ask the children what they think the story tells them about the lives of children in the early 1900s. In which ways were their lives like ours? How were they different? Does the story tell us anything about the way children were expected to behave?
 Pupils could role-play and improvise scenes based on incidents from stories or comics they have read from the period.
