The following suggestions provide ways for pupils to imagine and investigate what family homes were like at the time of World War One. 
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 You could familiarise pupils with the World War One period by asking them to draw a timeline. 
 Discuss with the class how World War One was, for many people, a 'before' and 'after' event. Looking back, they talked about 'what I did before the war' and 'what things were like after the war'. Ask if there are dates and events in our own lives that we might think of in the same way. Do pupils ever say things like: 'before I came to this school' or 'after I came to live in this town' or 'before we moved to the new house'?
 The children could use information in the BBC Schools World War One content to draw up their timelines. They could supplement this information with their own research about the period from books and websites. Give a group of pupils the task of collating information from all the timelines for a whole-class one, displayed on the wall.
 You could ask pupils to make a series of sketches of the house illustrated on the 'What were family homes like?' page. The children could also refer to photographs of period homes from books and websites.
 On the whiteboard or blackboard, draw a basic floor plan of a typical contemporary kitchen. Ask the children to put in the 'missing bits', the kitchen equipment and appliances they are familiar with.
 Pupils could go on to make floor plans of the World War One house based on their sketches. They should mark onto their plans all the key fixtures and significant objects. In addition to adding captions in English to sketches of a house, children could label them in the language they study. You could model the different vocabulary for furniture by placing captions in the right place and later removing them so that the children can reposition them. Children can also mark and describe the measurements in metres. Children may be interested to know that other European countries use a comma instead of a point in decimals, so they will need to know the words both for 'comma' and 'point'. 
 The children could also draw up floor plans of their own homes. Encourage them to mark features such as windows, power points and lighting fixtures, as well as furniture and significant objects.
 Ask the children to use two colours to circle the main differences between the two plans and the main similarities. What did people have then that is unfamiliar to us today? (Examples might include: a washstand and ewer, an oil lamp, a washboard and a chamber pot.) Are there things in our homes that are absent from the World War One house? (Examples might include: a washing machine, a television, a computer, a microwave, mobile phones, double-glazing and central heating.)
 You could ask the children to compile a list of household objects they might expect to find in a typical house of the World War One period. Pupils could use information in the BBC Schools World War One content to help them, as well as information from books and websites.
 Individual pupils could mime using a household object. Can others in the class guess what is being demonstrated? A child might mime putting a fireguard in place, for example, or turning the handle of an imaginary mangle. Groups of children could combine their mimes to show a whole family hard at work, or relaxing together. Other children could use simple percussion to provide a soundtrack.
 Pupils could follow up on this activity by devising missing-word puzzles for their friends to solve. For instance: 'It was hard work feeding that wet sheet through the _____ of the ______, but at least I wasn't the one who had to ____ the handle!' (Missing words: rollers, mangle, turn).
 Ask children to bring in any small household items that might be 100 years old (with permission of the owners of course), such as old cups, plates, ornaments or coins. You could make a display on a table in the classroom. The pupils could add labels to any finds they can authenticate.
 You could ask pupils to list their favourite foods. They could make a shopping list for a day's meals (breakfast, lunch and tea).
 Which foods were eaten back in 1914? Pupils could use the graphing tool Google Ngram Viewer to find food-related words and phrases that were current at the time. This open-source application allows researchers to check a large body or 'corpus' of printed books to see if a particular term was in popular use. Did British people talk about 'fish fingers', 'baked beans', 'potato waffles' or 'chicken nuggets' back in 1914? A search of the UK corpus will reveal the answer.
 After completing their research, ask the children to review their shopping lists and exclude everything not available or not eaten in 1914.
 You could ask the children to look at the materials used in the early 1900s to make clothes and home furnishings. Illustrations in books of the period, such as E Nesbit's stories, are a good source of information. TV adaptations of these books are also useful for reference. Video-sharing websites often carry short clips of TV or film dramatisations of stories such as 'The Treasure Seekers'.
 Ask the pupils to compare the fabrics they see with those used in their homes today. How do the colours and patterns compare? What do the children think the textures of the old-fashioned materials would be like? Would these fabrics be easy to wash and clean?
 The children could go on to make a model of an Edwardian room, using a small box such as a shoe box as a base. Encourage pupils to use scraps of suitable fabric to model the curtains and soft-furnishings.
 Children could also compare a square of a natural fabric available in 1914 (tweed, for example) with a sample of synthetic fabric used on an overcoat today. Can they devise a test to discover how waterproof the two fabric samples are?
 You could ask the children to find the information panel about old pennies on the 'What were family homes like?' page (on the 'Child's Bedroom' tab). Explain that British people in the early 1900s used 'old money' (pounds, shillings and pence). Establish that the coins were different from those of today. 
 Ask the children to find photos of the old coins online or in books. Together, establish the names of the coins and their relationships: ¼d or farthing, ½d or ha'penny, 1d or penny, 3d or thruppeny bit, sixpence, 1s or one shilling piece (worth 12d), two shilling piece, half-crown (worth 2s, 6d), crown, (worth 5s), pound (worth 240d) and guinea (worth £1, 1s).
 Pupils could practise using labelled counters to pay for goods and give change in old money. For example, if you buy six eggs for one penny and pay with one shilling, you should get 11d in change.
 The children could also learn the common names of now-vanished coins: a copper (penny), a tanner (sixpence), a bob (shilling), a florin (two shillings) and a sovereign (one pound).
 The children can find out more about the changes in our coinage system from the Royal Mint website.
 Pupils could measure room lengths using a tape measure marked in feet and inches. They could go on to measure other features, such as doors, windows and tables. Ask the children to estimate the size of the windows and doors of the wartime home shown on the BBC Schools 'Family homes' webpage. An average terraced house of the World War One period had rooms of around 12 feet by 10 feet. What are today's metric equivalents?
 Explain that people used different units when measuring back in 1914. The children could try converting a variety of measurements from metric to imperial units, including metres and feet, kilos and pounds and litres and pints. Many dictionaries provide conversion charts for the pupils to check their calculations, or they could use online conversion sites.
 Point out that, although the UK changed its measurement system decades ago, the old measures still persist. If you ask someone how tall they are, they often reply in feet and inches. Road signs often show distances in 'miles' rather than 'kilometres'. When you fly on a plane, the pilot tells you how many thousand 'feet' you are above the Earth. Cars in slow-moving traffic 'inch' along, but they never 'centimetre'. Can pupils think of other examples?
 You could take the class on a walk in your local area. Can they spot any houses similar to the ones they have seen in photographs of the early 1900s?
 The children could sketch any good examples and later try to find period photographs that match the sketches.
 You could also look out for local buildings or landmarks with World War One connections (churches, schools and libraries are often good places to start). Prompt the children to look for dates and inscriptions. Even an apparently contemporary shopping street may contain hidden surprises. The shop fronts may be modern, but the buildings above often have details that date from earlier times. Encourage pupils to pause and look at what the buildings are like above street level.
