The Indian city of Benares - or Varanasi - is sacred to three religions and home to ancient customs and traditions at contrast with much of the pace of modern life, as theatre company director Jatinder Verma discovers.
 August is shockingly hot in Benares, with temperatures getting up to 40C. 
 The fast-flowing Ganges river offers no respite from the heat. And adding to the inferno, rising in steep steps along the banks of the river, are the burning Ghats, the steps down to the river, where Hindus are cremated. 
 Benares has for long been regarded as a holy city by Hindus, Buddhists and Jains. 
 It is one of the oldest continuously inhabited cities in the world and the oldest in India.
 As one of the seven most holy places in the country, it is a key focus for many sanyasins - people who choose to "renounce the world", breaking all ties with their families and friends, wearing simple clothes and simply wandering around India.
 I've come here to investigate how this notion of renunciation sits beside a rapidly modernising India. 
 We were guided to the Ghats, through what can best be described as an open-air warehouse - a vast yard stacked to over 2m high with chopped mango wood. This wood, chosen for its fast-burning properties, is used on the funeral pyres.
 Outside the warehouse, in front of a small temple to Hanuman were gathered scores of Doms - traditionally the undertakers for Hindu society - the only caste sanctioned to prepare the funeral pyre and then gather the ash and dispose of the bones. 
 In a peculiarly Hindu paradox, the highest castes - who in life would recoil at the touch of the lowest castes - can be ministered to in death only by the lowest. 
 India's caste system
* The Indian caste system is a form of social hierarchy that has existed for over 2,000 years
 * There are four super-castes, or "varnas": the Brahmins (teachers and priests), the Ksyatriyas (rulers and warriors), the Vaisyas (merchants, farmers and traders), and the Shudras (labourers and artisans)
 * Each varna is subsequently divided into smaller castes, or "jatis"
 * There is one last group, not considered part of the main castes: the "dalits", formerly known as the "untouchables"
 * The caste system is based on the concepts of karma and purity. Dalits are considered too impure to be part of society. Their low status is believed to be the result of the evil committed in their past lives
 Beside the temple is a large platform on which there are eight pyres in different stages of their fiery life. 
 A body wrapped in red silk was placed on the pyre nearest to us and the mango wood was set alight. Rapidly, the flames engulfed the pyre. 
 We stood transfixed by the raging fire. In less than half-an-hour, the body had been reduced to "shuniya" - nothing. 
 Beside the platform, were other bodies, wrapped in red silk, lying on the ground waiting their turn on one of the pyres. 
 Just as we were mesmerised by the burning pyres, we could not help but stare at the bodies lying in wait. 
 I was simply not prepared for the humdrum nature of the scene - bodies being moved about with as much care as the mango wood, men bustling along the pyres intent on ensuring they blazed properly without sparking off another pyre that had not yet received its body. 
 Other Doms sifted bones from the ash on the banks of the Ganges. 
 Up to 300 bodies a day are cremated here. And it is the industriousness of the scene that makes it so unsettling. 
 Country on the rise?
* With a population of 1.2 billion, India is the world's largest democracy. (The UK population is about 62 million)
 * India's GDP is over $1.8 trillion, compared with the UK's $2.4 trillion
 * While 53% of Indian households have a mobile phone, fewer than 47% have a toilet
 As I looked at the pyres and the Ganges beyond, it struck me powerfully how little difference a single life makes. The river flowed on, never registering the passing of one person's life. 
 I was reminded of meeting Acharya Vidyanand, head of the Digamber Jain sect in Delhi, before we arrived in Benares. 
 The Digambers are one of the two main sects of the Jain religion - a religion that invented the concept and symbol of zero, which it calls "shuniya" - nothing, emptiness, the void. 
 Jainism is one of the oldest religions of India, emerging sometime around the 6th Century BC. 
 Non-violence is the root credo of the religion - a creed popularised in modern times by Mahatma Gandhi, who was heavily influenced by Jain ideas. 
 Amongst Jains, non-violence towards all living beings takes forms many would consider extreme - from sweeping the floor before them as they walk, to covering their mouths to avoid accidentally ingesting germs to refraining from cutting hair, as this means wilfully killing living cells. 
 The Digamber sect takes non-violence to another level. They vow to continue through life as they arrived - entirely naked.
 And so I had sat with the naked guru Acharya Vidyanand and his two young acolytes, also naked, and talked of mathematics. 
 An ancient Jain text of the 5th Century AD, the Lokavibhaga, bears the first known use in the world of the decimal place-value system, including the zero. 
 It is here that we first come across what are popularly known as "Arabic" numerals - the digits that power the modern world. According to Jain beliefs, the first Tirthankara (enlightened soul), Rishabh-dev introduced two forms of script to the world, which he first taught to his two daughters, Brahmi and Sundari. 
 Jainism 
* Jainism teaches that the way to liberation and bliss is to live lives of harmlessness and renunciation
 * The essence of Jainism is concern for the welfare of every living being and the health of the Universe
 * Jains believe that animals and plants, as well as human beings, all have living souls. Each of these souls is considered of equal value and should be treated with respect and compassion
 * They are strict vegetarians and try to live in a way that minimises their use of the world's resources
 * They believe in reincarnation and seek to attain ultimate liberation, which means escaping the continuous cycle of birth, death and rebirth so that the immortal soul lives for ever in a state of bliss
 To Brahmi he taught script in the form of alphabets, while Sundari was taught numerals. "Sundari" means beautiful and I particularly like the connotation of numerals with beauty.
 As the naked Acharya and I talked of the concept of "shuniya", from which all other numerals flow and to which they all converge, he leaned towards me and said: "One is the individual self and zero the world." 
 Standing before the burning pyres in Benares with the Ganges in full flow, this statement struck me that life is like mathematics, a simple binary with an on-off switch. 
 And given that the off-switch is ever present, what we make of the on-switch - the number 1 - is all that matters. Which perhaps helps explain why so many millions of men and women in India renounce the lives they are born into in search of another, more meaningful way of being.
 Jatinder Verma is artistic director of theatre company Tara Arts
