* How did war end? 
 * Remembrance and poppies 
 * After the war 
 * Poetry 
 After the war, the Allied countries wanted to ensure that there was peace for a long time. 
 The leaders of the USA, Great Britain and France met to decide what should happen next. Germany, Austria and Hungary were not invited. 
 France wanted to punish Germany and stop them from ever fighting again. The USA wanted to make sure there was peace for a long time. Great Britain wanted to keep peace but also to make Germany pay what they owed. 
 Once they had made up their minds, they told the other countries' leaders to meet them in Versailles, in France. They had created an agreement called the Treaty of Versailles. 
 Germany was shocked by how strict the treaty was. It had to accept total blame for starting the war. There would be a League of Nations where all countries would work together to keep peace but Germany was not allowed to join. 
 The treaty also said that some places that Germany used to own, like Alsace-Lorraine, would not belong to them anymore. It banned Germany from joining up with Austria or having an army of more than 100,000 men. They were not allowed to have submarines or an air force at all. 
 Germany had to pay 132 billion gold marks (Germany's currency before the Euro) to repair the damage they had done in the war. 
 People in Germany were angry at the treaty. They became poor because of all the money their country had to pay. 
 Britain also had money problems. Britain had borrowed lots of money during the war to pay for weapons and machinery. Now she had to pay it back. 
 Soldiers' lives were never the same again. Many still suffered from shell shock or were disabled. It was difficult for them to forget about the horrors of the war. 
 Many soldiers back in Britain received support and training to help them recover and move forward with their lives. Training centres were set up to re-train ex-servicemen in new jobs in the community, such as cobblers, electricians and jewellers.
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas looking at the end of war and remembrance.
