What were women's roles at home?
 These suggestions provide ways for pupils to actively imagine and investigate the lives of women who worked on the home front during the World War One. 
 Pupils will have the opportunity of using primary source material to conduct their own research.
 Children could make a list of jobs women took on during World War One. What kind of jobs meant wearing uniforms? Talk about why some people wear uniforms. Women in World War One did not serve in combat. They do now. Why do children think this change has happened? You could also ask why the children think so many women were in service before the war and why so many worked in factories during the war.
 Pupils could go on to draw comic strips showing a woman's day in the war years. They could use information in the BBC Schools content, as well as material from books and websites to help them.
 You might begin with a discussion about women's work in the early 1900s, based on the children's experience of the BBC Schools content. What do pupils think would have been the worst jobs in the 1914 home? What jobs might children have done? Ask the class to list the chores of a housewife (or a maidservant) in 1914. Do they think women's lives were affected by new technology?
 Invite pupils to suggest changes a country girl born in 1890 might have seen by 1918. Make a list (for example motor cars, planes, phones, airships, electric lights at home and cinema shows). How did workplace technology (typewriters, phones) change life for working women?
 You could go on to stage a Q and A session, with role-plays. Some children could act as 'interviewers' and others could take on the character of, say, a VAD nurse, Land Army girl, housewife or munitions worker. Boys in the class might take on the role of a child left at home while mum is out at work.
 You could ask pupils to study examples of wartime posters that encouraged women to take on work outside the home. There's a good selection at:
 Pupils could produce their own versions of these posters, or design their own poster to encourage the mothers and sisters of World War One Britain to go out to work.
 As the children work on their designs, you could prompt their reflection with questions such as: 'About 2 million women in Britain had jobs outside the home by 1918. How did this affect family life and women's expectations?', 'How did men's views of women change during the war?' and 'What messages were these posters giving?'
