* Who was Edith? 
 * Nursing and the war 
 * Her death 
 * Hero or criminal? 
 Edith trained to be a nurse at the Royal London Hospital in Whitechapel in 1896.
 In 1897, there was an outbreak of typhoid fever in Maidstone. Edith, along with some of her fellow nurses, travelled there from London to treat those who fell ill. Of the 1,700 people who caught the disease, 132 died. Edith received the Maidstone Medal for her work in treating patients who fell ill from the fever.
 Between 1898 and 1907, Edith left private nursing, where she treated people with pneumonia, typhoid and appendicitis, and went back to look after sick people in the community in London. In 1903 Edith started visiting patients in their homes after they had left hospital. 
 Afterwards she moved to the Manchester and Salford Sick and Poor Private Nursing Institution where she was promoted to Matron.
 Edith returned to Brussels in 1907 to nurse but was soon moved on to new important work by a doctor named Dr. Antoine Depage. The doctor was inspired by the work of Florence Nightingale and put Edith in charge of training nurses to become skilled in medical care at the Berkendael Medical Institute. At that time, the only people who helped the sick were nuns who gave care but were not trained in medicine. 
 Edith was visiting her mother back in England when war broke out in 1914. She decided to give up her holiday and go back to Belgium to help injured soldiers, saying "At a time like this, I am needed more than ever". She also said that nurses should take care of patients no matter which side they were fighting on. 
 Edith and her hospital helped thousands of wounded soldiers receive proper, modern medical care. 
 The Berkendael Medical Institute in Belgium became a Red Cross hospital for soldiers from all countries. 
 Edith did not mind whether a soldier was British, French or German and she treated the injured, regardless of what nationality they were. She also hid around 200 British, Belgian and French soldiers from the Germans by keeping them safe at the nursing school and clinic where she lived.
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas for Edith Cavell.
