* Who was Edith? 
 * Nursing and the war 
 * Her death 
 * Hero or criminal? 
 Most people now believe Edith was a hero. She gave up her life to help British, French and Belgian soldiers escape from the Germans, who wanted to capture and imprison them. She also helped many more soldiers recover from illness and injury.
 Edith was British, and Germany and Austria were fighting against Britain. At the time, some British people thought that she was wrong to treat German and Austrian soldiers. 
 They did not understand why she wanted to help soldiers trying to kill people from her own country. They thought she was being unpatriotic but she said "patriotism is not enough". This meant she did not think it was fair to only care about people from your own country. 
 Edith believed that German and Austrian soldiers were just human beings, fighting for their country in the same way British and French soldiers were fighting for theirs. She believed soldiers from both sides deserved help. 
 At the time, British people thought that the Germans and Austrians were bad. Nowadays, many believe Edith was actually very brave to help the Germans and Austrians at a time when so many of her own people hated them.
 Even though she wanted to help soldiers on both sides, the British government used Edith's death to make the Germans look bad.
 They created propaganda to convince the public Germans were horrible because they had killed her. This made people angry and upset and led to them disliking Germany even more. 
 "
 I have tended the hurt and hidden the hunted, have done as a sister does to a brother"
Edith is still remembered today. A charity was set up in her memory, called the Cavell Nurses' Trust. It helps nurses, midwives and healthcare assistants who need money because they have been ill or injured. 
 There are statues and memorials remembering her in England, France, Australia, Belgium and the United States of America. 
 The statues of Edith Cavell in Brussels and in Paris were destroyed by the Germans when they occupied the two cities in 1940. 
 Teachers' notes
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas for Edith Cavell.
