* Post 
 * Telephones 
 * Newspapers 
 * Telegrams 
 * Posters 
 * Propaganda 
 * Communication 
 	 Everyone wanted to know what was happening during the war but the Government needed to make sure nothing would be printed that might help the enemy. 
 They knew spies might read the papers, hoping to find information which could help their country win the war.
 Under the terms of the Defence of the Realm Act (a wartime law), newspapers were not allowed to print information which could be used by the enemy or which could make people feel unhappy about the war. 
 'EXTRA! EXTRA!'
 However, on the whole journalists censored themselves since they supported the war and were strongly patriotic. They often wrote stories in a way that made the British and their Allies look successful. 
 Some national newspapers carried a list of officers and men killed in battle, and local papers would list those in their area who were dead or missing. It all made very sad reading, particularly since so many soldiers and sailors were young men.
 'Read all about it!'
 As well as reports about the war, there were also sections on how to make food go further or how to be a good housekeeper despite the shortages. 
 War reporters
 When the war started, journalists were banned from going to the Western Front and telling people about it. 
 However, many reporters ignored this ban and found secret ways to travel to the war. One journalist, Basil Clarke, hid on a train full of French soldiers going to fight. 
 In April 1915, the ban was stopped and some journalists were allowed to report on the front.
 Some people wrote letters commenting on less important matters such as the style of uniforms women were now wearing. There were stories to cheer people up too. 
 'It's a long, long way to Tipperary'
 One journalist wrote about an Irish regiment marching through a French town singing a song called "It's a Long Way to Tipperary". 
 The news spread to other soldiers and to singers in Britain and soon, everyone knew the tune because of the newspaper story. It became one of the most popular songs in World War One.
 Teachers' notes
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas looking at communication 100 years ago.
