* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 1914 is an important year. It is important not just in the UK but across the world. 1914 is remembered in France and Germany, Italy and Austria, Russia, Turkey and India. It is remembered in Africa and the Caribbean, Australia and New Zealand and in the United States and Canada too. 1914 is the year that World War One began. The war they called The Great War.
 We remember this war on Remembrance Day. We bring to mind not just those people who fought and died in World War One a hundred years ago but also those affected by World War Two and by other wars since 1945. 
 Remembrance is not a word we use every day. In everyday life, we say we 'remember' something like a friend's birthday. Things around us help us to remember people or places. Photos remind us of a party or maybe a holiday. An old toy, a football programme, clothes now too small for us ... these things remind us of the past.
 'Remembrance' suggests something more important, a significant experience that can be shared. 
 Remembrance Sunday is the one nearest to the eleventh of November. Many people wear poppies as November the eleventh draws near. 
 Why November the eleventh? It was at the eleventh hour of the eleventh day of the eleventh month that World War One ended in 1918. At eleven o'clock on a Monday morning, the guns fell silent. The killing stopped. This was the armistice - an agreement to stop fighting. When World War One was over, people wanted to mark the event on a special day, so they chose Armistice Day. Today many people observe Remembrance Sunday but they also have a time for silent reflection on Armistice Day, the eleventh of November, no matter what day of the week it falls on. Many Cubs, Scouts and Guide Groups attend.
 (Play the 'Remembrance' video clip.)
 Those images will be familiar to many of you. Some of us take part in Remembrance Sunday events around the country, while others watch at home on television. It is a time to pause. To remember. To think about how wars affect people. No British soldier who fought in World War One is alive now. We only have their stories. But we remember them, as we remember the men and women who fought in World War Two. And we remember those still at war today, wherever they may be. A good way to do this is by being silent for a short time.
 At 11 o'clock on Remembrance Sunday there is a two-minute silence to remember those who died in war. Ours is not a silent world. There is noise all around us. So silence is special. Silence helps us to stop thinking about what is going on right now or what we have to do next. Silence lets us pause to reflect.
 (A brief pause. You could choose to have a longer period of silence here.)
 (Play the 'Poppies' video clip.)
 Soldiers and sailors often get forgotten when peace comes but after the 1914 to 1918 war, people did not want to forget. That is why Remembrance Day became what it is, a day for calling the past to mind. Many of the World War One soldiers whose graves we see in such long rows in the war cemeteries were very young. Most families lost someone they loved. Remembrance gives us time to think about how we too cope with sadness and loss.
 We can also take time to reflect on how good can come out of bad. How enemies can become friends. Today we are thankful for the peace in our country. We hope for peace in countries where there is conflict. 
 While Remembrance Day brings sadness, it also brings hope for the future. Hope of a better world, the world for which so many of those soldiers believed they were fighting.
 You may have heard these words spoken on Remembrance Day. It is a good way to end.
 Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn. 
 We will remember them.'
