There are tools available for parents to help keep their children safe online. And these tools are often free, but usually require parents to set them up. 
 Parental tools can help to block out age-inappropriate content, such as pornographic and violent content. 
 We know that children of all ages, though particularly younger children, can be upset by things they see online, and filtering tools can help to reduce the chances of them coming across this content. 
 Some tools allow parents to set different profiles for different children, enabling parents to offer a more protective internet experience for younger children for example. The controls available to parents offer more than just filtering. 
 Some offer time limits to online activities, which can allow the parent to restrict access to the internet, or to certain types of sites at certain times - for example to block social networking during homework time. 
 Others allow parents to monitor what their children are doing online. If these tools are going to be used, they work best following a discussion between parent and child about their use. 
 Filters work best with parental engagement because sometimes filters can over-block, i.e. prevent access to content that is OK for your child to see, or under-block, letting some inappropriate content get through the filter. 
 On most filters it allows you, if you want to give your child access to a site that has been blocked, to give permission and unblock a particular site. It can also allow you to add sites that were not previously on the blocked list.
 The four big Internet Service providers (ISPs), BT, Sky, Talk Talk and Virgin, provide free parental controls, and provide new customers with a prompt so that they have to make a decision as to whether they want to use parental controls or not. If you are a customer of one of these ISPs, you can watch a short video to find out where you can find these parental controls, what they do and how you can set them up. 
 The UK Mobile operators also provide free parental controls to help filter out any inappropriate content for children. Some set this up by default, but if you are not sure then contact your mobile operator and ask them. 
 There are also parental controls available on a wide range of devices. Whether your child is using a games console, a tablet or a smartphone there are controls available for parents to use, and these are available for free. 
 Video on demand services like BBC iPlayer offer a password protected parental lock which can help protect children from more challenging content.
 It is important to note that these tools are there to help, and they don't provide a solution to keeping children safe online in themselves. No filtering tool is 100% effective, and in any case, some of the risks facing children online are as a result of their own or other people's behaviour, such as cyberbullying or over-sharing information. 
 Research tells us that content filters are better at blocking pornographic material than some other potentially offensive content, and that the best outcomes for children come from parental engagement and support. Parents being parents online as well as offline, making sure their children know how to stay safe, be responsible and to respect others online. 
 The best steps to take are then talking to your children about staying safe online and making sure they know that they can come to you if they need help. Parental controls work in addition to, not instead of, this.
