* Who was Stubby? 
 * Military service 
 * Medals and awards 
 * After the war 
 Corporal Conroy's commanding officer found out Stubby was secretly taken to France but let him stay on the front line with the soldiers after Stubby gave him a salute. 
 Stubby was involved in many battles, including the Battle of Marne and the Battle of Chateau-Thierry. 
 He also suffered from injury. On one occasion, he was caught in a gas attack. Another time, shrapnel from a grenade hit him. Stubby was so popular that he was treated at a human hospital instead of an animal one. 
 What did Stubby do?
 After his experience of a gas attack, Stubby got to know the smell very well. 
 Dogs have a greater sense of smell than humans and Stubby was able to smell the gas before any of the human soldiers could. He became very useful in alerting his army when a gas attack was coming.
 On one occasion, the whole of his camp was sleeping when the Germans started a gas attack. Stubby smelt the gas straight away and ran through the trench barking and biting the soldiers' shirts to let them know what was happening. He saved all of their lives. 
 Stubby also had great hearing and knew when the enemy was coming, even if they were far away. He was able to make a movement with his tail to tell his soldiers when enemies were approaching. He could do this without making a noise so the enemy did not know they had been spotted. 
 Stubby once heard a German spy sneaking into his camp very late at night. He grabbed onto the spy's leg so that he could not escape. By then, the other soldiers heard the noise and came to help. They captured the spy and put him in prison. 
 Stubby also took on a role similar to that of a mercy dog. These dogs found and comforted dying and injured soldiers. 
 Stubby searched the front line where soldiers fought, looking for injured American soldiers. He had learnt to tell the difference between the English and the German language. 
 When he found an injured American soldier, he barked to get the attention of another soldier. 
 Sometimes, when there weren't any soldiers close by, he ran back to camp to find someone who could help. If the soldier was dying, Stubby sat with him and gave him comfort until he passed away. 
 Teachers' notes and classroom ideas for Sergeant Stubby.
