* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 The following teachers' notes provide ways for pupils to reflect on the 2014 centenary of World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material and to conduct their own research.
 The 'Remembrance' video helps children to reflect on the 2014 centenary of World War One and to explore why remembrance has become part of national life in the UK and other countries. 
 When did poppy-wearing begin? Why was the poppy chosen as the symbol of remembrance? Watch this clip to find out. 
 You could introduce the topic of World War One using BBC Schools resources. You might put the war in its historical context by making a timeline with the class showing the two world wars and events that happened before and after them. You could take the line right up to the present day. Explain that World War One happened exactly 100 years ago. When we reach such an important anniversary, it is a time to look back and try to make sense of what happened.
 You could show the children photographs and other images that record World War One. You might include pictures of the Western Front, trenches and casualties.
 Useful link
 You might ask children why they think the battlefields in France look the way they do. Can they see any clues as to what caused so much devastation? 
 Children could look carefully at what the men in the photographs are wearing. They might discuss what they are carrying. You could ask what must it have been like living in the trenches? What food do the children think the soldiers ate? (Their meals mostly consisted of corned beef, very hard biscuits and tea, with tinned fruit as a 'treat'.) How would the soldiers have washed? Could they change their clothes? 
 Useful links
 Pupils might examine images of poppies growing on what were once battlefields. Does anyone know why the poppy was chosen as a symbol of remembrance?
 When looking at images of wounded soldiers in a military hospital, you could ask children to reflect upon why some soldiers welcomed their injuries.
 When looking at images of the Home Front (such as women at home and work, Land Girls and children waving flags), pupils could discuss what women back in the UK did to help the war effort. How were their lives affected by the war? What do they think children at the time learned about the war?
 Explain that World War One began in Europe in 1914. You could use a map to show the main war zones and to familiarise the children with the names and borders of the combatant countries. Pupils could go on to identify the rough location of the 'Western Front', where the two military alliances faced each other from their trenches.
 You might ask the children to list the main combatant nations: Germany and its allies on one side, Britain, France and Russia on the other. BBC Schools resources about 'Causes of war and the war years' will help you find out more, including when Turkey and the United States joined the war.
 Why was it a 'world war'? (Because it was fought around the world, though most of the worst fighting was in Europe.)
 Why was it called the 'Great War'? (Because it was more destructive than any previous war in history.)
 Useful link
 You could ask children why they think so many more soldiers were killed in World War One than in former wars. (They might speculate that this was because of changes in technology, or because of the use of weapons of mass destruction, such as mustard gas.) To reinforce the learning, show pictures of World War One tanks, heavy artillery, machine guns, aircraft, Zeppelin airships, battleships, submarines and gas masks. 
 Why do the children think so many horses were taken to the Western Front?
 Useful link
 Children could look at images of war cemeteries and memorials, such as the Menin Gate or fields of remembrance (the video clips are good sources).
 You could ask the pupils why they think people still visit war graves from World War One. Why do school groups often visit these sites?
 The children might like to hear about and research the personal stories of some of those caught up in World War One. They could look for information about:
* Capt Noel Chavasse (twice a VC winner, an army doctor and former athlete, killed in 1917)
 * Edith Cavell (a nurse shot for helping soldiers)
 * Elsie Inglis (a doctor and women's rights campaigner, died 1917)
 * Harry Patch (one of the last survivors of the 1914 to 1918 war, died 2009)
 * Jack Cornwell (a boy-sailor killed at the Battle of Jutland)
 * Lord Kitchener (a trained soldier responsible for army strategy during the war, died 1916)
 * Walter Tull (a black army officer, a former footballer who served in the Footballers' Battalion, killed 1918)
 * Wilfred Owen (a poet who died fighting in the war in 1918 aged 25)
Children may have old family photos at home that they might like to share, or even wartime memorabilia. If these items are too precious to bring to school, the children could photograph them instead. The class could make a display of all their 'found objects' and try to discover more about them from books and websites. 
 Useful link
 Age shall not weary them, nor the years condemn. 
 We will remember them." 
 These lines are from a poem by Laurence Binyon, published in September 1914, only a month after World War One had begun.
 Children could discuss what they think the poem means. Pupils might try re-writing the lines in their own words. You could ask the children to reflect on who the poet is thinking about in these lines. Why would age 'weary them'?
