* Introduction 
 * Assembly 
 * Teachers' Notes 
 The following teachers' notes provide ways for pupils to reflect on the 2014 centenary of World War One.
 Pupils will have the opportunity to use primary source material and to conduct their own research.
 Remembrance Day began in 1919 when people gathered to remember loved ones they had lost in the war. Today it is a national day of commemoration, replicated at other memorials not just around the United Kingdom but in many parts of the world
 The 'Remembrance' video helps students to reflect on the 2014 centenary of World War One and to explore why remembrance has become part of national life in the UK and other countries.
 A Canadian Army doctor called John McCrae wrote a poem called 'In Flanders Fields' after the funeral of a friend killed in battle in 1915.
 Introduce the topic of World War One using BBC Schools resources. You could put the war in its historical context by making a timeline that shows the two world wars and events that happened before and after them. Take the line right up to the present day. Explain that World War One happened 100 years ago. When we reach such an important anniversary, it is time to look back and try to make sense of what happened.
 Useful link
 Encourage students to examine images of war cemeteries and memorials. You could discuss how people of different religious faiths, or none, behave when a loved-one dies. For example, how are funerals conducted by the different traditions of Christians, Hindus and Muslims?
 The students could study images of war cemeteries and discuss what they think about them. What might people do as an act of commemoration? (Planting trees, for example.) What other kinds of commemoration can the students suggest?
 Students might research other World War One commemorative projects, including unusual ones such as the LMS Patriot Project (building a steam railway locomotive) or the Animals in War memorial in Hyde Park.
 In 1964 the BBC interviewed many World War One ex-servicemen or veterans, most then in their 70s and 80s. Such sound archives and other archives in museums are now part of history. TV programmes, books and websites help us to re-live that history. 
 The centenary of World War One will provide more material for reflection on the conflict. Other countries are also sharing their archive materials. This was a 'world war' affecting people in many parts of the world as well as Britain. France, Germany, Italy, Austria, Russia, Portugal, Turkey and Greece all fell under the shadow of the war. India, Brazil, Japan, China and large parts of Africa and the Caribbean were caught up in the conflict. Australia, New Zealand, the United States and Canada were all finally drawn into the war too.
 Thousands of soldiers who fell in World War One have no known graves. Ask students why they think so many bodies were never identified even though every soldier wore an identity disc. 
 Some students may know about the Tomb of the Unknown Warrior in Westminster Abbey. They can find out more about the Unknown Warrior's journey from battlefield to national memorial online. 
 There are more than 250 memorials at the National Memorial Arboretum in Staffordshire. Opened in 2001, this is a place many people visit, especially those who have lost a family member in a recent conflict. 
 Useful link
 Ever since 1921, the poppy has been worn in the UK and many other countries. In 1922 a former soldier started a factory to make artificial poppies. In the UK, poppies are distributed by the Royal British Legion, in return for donations. Students could research the origins of poppy-wearing and how this American act of commemoration quickly became internationalised.
 Traditionally British soldiers killed abroad were buried where they fell. In more recent conflicts, bodies have been brought home for burial and Royal Wootton Bassett has become famous for military homecomings. What do the students think of this change? 
 The War Memorials Trust helps to look after and protect Britain's war memorials. There may be a memorial nearby. Before visiting the memorial students might consider: Why is it there? What form does it take? How is it made?
 Do students know of any other local memorials, such as a brass plate in a nearby public building or railway station? Is there a memorial somewhere in the school itself?
 Students may see names they know on the memorial; the surnames of families still living locally. What does this tell us? Some students may feel these are just the names of strangers from the past, from a different, far-away world. Some may ask, 'What has all this got to do with us?' 
 Encourage students to consider these questions and their possible responses. Why do students think people get upset if others mistreat or vandalise memorials? 
 Students could think about the words and phrases they may see inscribed on war memorials. These might include, for example: The Glorious Dead; In Grateful Memory; Lest We Forget; Those Who Gave Their Lives, etc.
 What do these words mean to people in the twenty-first century? What did the people of 1914 mean by such words and terms such as 'sacrifice', 'duty' and 'honour'?
 Do any of these ideas still have resonance today?
