A new DNA test has been developed to allow retailers to authenticate Aberdeen-Angus beef, in a bid to protect its name and heritage. 
 "If you get a bright red chunk of beef, it may well look nice in a polystyrene tray, but it certainly won't eat very well," says Aberdeen-Angus breeder Geordie Soutar.
 "But if you get one with a little bit of white fat round it and speckles through it, it will cook and eat sublimely." 
 The original Aberdeen-Angus was first bred in the early 19th Century in northeast Scotland, but now the cattle are bred in South America, Canada, the US and South Africa.
 What to cook with beef:
* Conquer the art of the beef Wellington
 * Make succulent sirloin steak with chips
 * Create restaurant-standard steak Balmoral
 * Roast beef to perfection
 * Tantalise with beef in a Thai curry
 Now most Aberdeen-Angus cattle are cross-bred, and the amount of pure-bred Aberdeen-Angus beef on the market "is very very small", says Ron McHattie, chief executive of The Aberdeen-Angus Cattle Society.
 This means breeders are keen to ensure no impostors lacking in fat and flavour sully Aberdeen Angus beef's reputation, because premium beef demands premium prices. 
 Waitrose sells Aberdeen-Angus beef sirloin steak for £24 per kg (£6.00 per 250g pack), while the MacDonalds Brothers butchers in Perthshire, which is supplied by Geordie Soutar, charges £23.08 per kg of Aberdeen-Angus sirloin steak.
 However cut-price chain Aldi recently introduced a range of "certified" Aberdeen-Angus beef, setting the cost of sirloin steak at £17.58 per kg (£3.99 per 227g pack).
 To ensure that such beef is legitimate, a DNA test has been developed for The Aberdeen-Angus Cattle Society by IdentiGEN, a company that provides DNA technology to the food industry. 
 It is the first of its kind in the UK, and the society is hoping to roll it out to supermarkets.
 Know your steak
* Sirloin is a prime cut of beef from the back of the animal. It is sold as steak and as roasting joints
 * Fillet is usually the most expensive piece of beef available. Although it has less flavour than other cuts, it is prized for its tenderness and suits quick cooking
 * Topside is a prime lean cut of beef from the rear. Usually sold with a layer of fat for roasting
 * Oxtail is a flavoursome and inexpensive cut of beef perhaps most famously used in soups and stews
 For beef to be classed as Aberdeen-Angus, the minimum specification required by the European beef labelling directive is that the animal must have been "sired by a pedigree, registered, Aberdeen-Angus", says Mr McHattie.
 But how to ensure this is actually the case?
 Until now, a paper-based audit trail has been used to test Aberdeen-Angus beef, but the technique is open to "human error", explains Mr McHattie.
 The DNA test involves swabbing the carcasses at point of slaughter and traces the animal's origins all the way back to its father "on the farm where the animals were conceived".
 This will prevent any occasional "knowingly-made false statements" about the origins of meat entering the system.
 "If you have a premium product which the consumer is paying a premium for, then there are those that would exploit that margin," says Mr McHattie.
 Demand for Aberdeen-Angus steak is increasing, but as more premium meat is produced, could the beef industry be open to exploitation?
 "If the demand exceeds the supply then… there is the temptation, and possibility that other product may be substituted along the way," says Mr McHattie.
 "I'm not saying that's widespread - it certainly used to be much more widespread than it is now."
 	"
 Meat is now expensive and the last thing you want is to go into a restaurant and have a disappointing steak"
 If the test puts an end to this, Geordie Soutar says breeders will only benefit, and he has a true heritage to protect.
 While most Aberdeen-Angus beef is from cross-bred cattle, he made it his mission to preserve a native "original blood-line" in the 1990s at Kent Farm in Angus, Scotland.
 "Ours are the original cattle that have no imported genetics at all," he says.
 The native cattle are smaller in size than cross-breeds, and their "very rare" genetics allows means that breeders around the world go to Mr Soutar for their embryos and semen.
 Mr Sutar says steak-lovers will also benefit from knowing the origin of their beef.
 "It's all part of the provenance, because a lot of people have ridden on the back of the Angus name.
 "Meat is now expensive and the last thing you want is to go into a restaurant and have a disappointing steak because it's going to cost you a lot of money. It should be a pleasurable experience."
 It might have been DNA tested, but how can diners actually taste the difference between their steaks?
 It is the distinctive "marbling" of inter-muscular fat that makes Aberdeen-Angus beef "almost unique", says Ron McHattie, as the fat melts and drains off when the beef is cooked.
 "The succulence adds to the flavour, which adds to the taste," he says. 
 "The further you get away from Angus genetics then the less likely you are to have that marbling."
 To help achieve this meat the cattle are fed on grass, rather than cereal animal-feed.
 "It's been proven that grass-fed beef is much higher in omega-3s; conjugated linoleic acids, which are healthy are much higher in grass-fed beef," says Mr Soutar.
 Mr McHattie says how beef is "handled and matured post-slaughter" dictates how succulent it is.
 "You can get very good beef at the point of slaughter but it can turn into pretty awful beef by the time you cook it, and how long you've matured it."
 Bad beef is not something supermarkets are willing to risk.
 Waitrose says it already has a detailed authentication process in place. 
 It says all the beef it sells is British and fully traceable. Two to three days before an Aberdeen-Angus animal is slaughtered, it receives a signed declaration from the farmer with sire and registered pedigree details, which is checked thoroughly and backed up by regular farm audits. 
 "We also carry out parental DNA testing on some animals as a 'belt and braces' check. We can honestly say that we know the full family history of all the Angus animals that enter our supply chain," Duncan Sinclair, Waitrose's agriculture manager says. 
 The supermarket says it is already in talks with the society about its DNA test, but wants to see further rigorous testing before it adopts it. 
 "Our testing process is robust and thorough and we would only change if we thought alternatives offered genuine improvement over our current system," according to Duncan Sinclair.
