Ephraim Mirvis replaces Lord Jonathan Sacks as the Chief Rabbi of Britain and the United Hebrew Congregations of the Commonwealth.
 The Chief Rabbi is the spiritual head of the largest grouping of Orthodox Jewish communities in the UK.
 The son and grandson of rabbis, Ephraim Mirvis was born in Johannesburg, South Africa, in 1956. He moved to Israel in 1973 and studied at religious academies Yeshivat Kerem BeYavne and Yeshivat Har Etzion. 
 He holds a BA in education and classical Hebrew from the University of South Africa and was ordained as a rabbi at Machon Ariel, Jerusalem. He is also a qualified secondary school teacher in Israel.
 A trained shochet, Ephraim Mirvis can carry out the ritual Jewish slaughter which makes animals fit for consumption in accordance with Jewish laws. He is also a qualified mohel - someone who can perform circumcisions.
 He became the Chief Rabbi of Ireland at the age of 28 in 1984, a post which he held for eight years. In 1985 Nazi war criminal Pieter Menten made a request to live in Ireland after serving time in prison. Ephraim Mirvis, who at the time was the chairman of the Irish National Council for Soviet Jewry, managed to lobby against the request and Menten was not allowed to enter the country.
 What does a chief rabbi do?
* Chief Rabbi is a title given to the religious leader of a country's Jewish community
 * In the UK the Chief Rabbi is the leader of the mainstream Orthodox Jewish community and acts like an ambassador between British Jewry and the rest of society
 * He does not officially represent the non-Orthodox strands of Judaism
 * The Chief Rabbi is also the head of the London Beth Din, the religious court that deals with various aspects of Jewish law, including conversion, divorce and questions related to Jewish dietary laws 
 In 1992 he became rabbi of the Western Marble Arch Synagogue in London, replacing Lord Jonathan Sacks, who had just been installed as Chief Rabbi for the UK.
 In May 1996, he joined the Finchley community, also known as Kinloss, one of the biggest congregations in London. There, he created the Kinloss Learning Centre, a successful community education programme which served as a model for other Jewish communities. 
 He also founded the Morasha Jewish Primary School, of which he is honorary principal, and the Kinloss Community Kollel, an institute for advanced study of the Talmud.
 In a recent tribute to his successor, Lord Sacks described what Ephraim Mirvis achieved in his 16 years at the Finchley community as "the stuff of legend."
 A great advocate of interfaith dialogue, Rabbi Mirvis was president of the Irish Council of Christians and Jews from 1985 to 1992. He has taken part in dialogues with UK Church leaders, including meetings at Windsor Castle and Lambeth Palace. 
 He was the first rabbi from the United Synagogue to welcome an imam in his synagogue and facilitated a gathering between members of his synagogue and those of the Finchley mosque. 
 A fervent supporter of the state of Israel, in December 2012 he told Edward Stourton on the BBC Radio 4 Sunday programme that "we [the community] yearn for peace and security and we pray for peace and security for all people who live in the Middle East."
 During the interview he also expressed his concern over anti-semitism and "rising trends in the continent" which, he feared, might spread to the UK. He said that sometimes there were "attacks on Israel which at their base rise out of anti-semitism, and sometimes that's not the case." 
 Ephraim Mirvis and his wife Valerie, a senior social worker, have four sons and five grandchildren. Their eldest daughter passed away after a long battle with cancer in 2011.
 	"
 A great pastor, a great thinker and a great humanitarian"
 He refused to take the multi-million pound residence of the former Chief Rabbi in St John's Wood in favour of a less expensive home in Hendon, a northern suburb of London. 
 United Synagogue president Stephen Pack explained that this would allow the Chief Rabbi to reach a large number of congregants within walking distance during the Sabbath, when Jewish people are not allowed to drive or take public transport.
 Upon hearing of his appointment, former prime minister Gordon Brown described him as a "great pastor, a great thinker and a great humanitarian." 
 The message also affectionately referred to the rabbi's passion for Tottenham Hotspur Football Club.
 After the announcement, Rabbi Mirvis stated that in his office he would "seek to take our community to even greater heights through a deeper commitment to Jewish identity, values and learning."
 In advance of his installation, he also reaffirmed his commitment to nurturing relationships with other religious groups.
 "Co-operation, mutual respect and personal friendships are crucial in good relations with other faiths," he said.
 "I look forward to building on the strong relationships we have with other faith communities in this country."
