{"title":"BBC Schools - Teachers' notes: Jack Cornwell","url":"http://www.bbc.co.uk/schools/0/ww1/25733530","images":null,"titles":["BBC Schools - Teachers' notes: Jack Cornwell"],"author":null,"lede":"These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to explore the life story of Jack Cornwell and to find out more about the World War One period. To help children imagine Britain's position in 1914, you could list a few 'fascinating facts': in 1914 the Navy had 60 battleships, more than 100 battle cruisers and cruisers and over 200 destroyers. These ships were far bigger than those in today's navy. To get a sense of the ships' relative sizes, the class could measure out their lengths on the school playing field or football pitch.","keywords":[["jack",65],["cornwell",20],["children",17],["bbc",15],["war",15],["pupils",13],["schools",10],["ships",9],["milk",7],["find",6],["jack's",6],["life",6],["navy",5],["teachers",5],["before",5],["years",5],["notes",5],["measure",5],["technology",4],["battleships",4]],"body":"These classroom suggestions provide ways for pupils to explore the life story of Jack Cornwell and to find out more about the World War One period.\n To help children imagine Britain's position in 1914, you could list a few 'fascinating facts': in 1914 the Navy had 60 battleships, more than 100 battle cruisers and cruisers and over 200 destroyers. \n These ships were far bigger than those in today's navy. To get a sense of the ships' relative sizes, the class could measure out their lengths on the school playing field or football pitch. A destroyer was around 90m long. HMS Dreadnought was 160m. The biggest ships carried more than 1000 sailors. You could compare that with the number of children in school.\n Children could discuss what they think a sea battle was like in 1916. How did Jack's ship at Jutland find its way, or keep in contact with the rest of the fleet? How did the ships find the enemy? What weapons did they use to fight the battle?\n Children could make models of British battleships from World War One, using stiff card and glue. They could base their designs on images of battleships and information about their dimensions gleaned from an online search for 'British battleships of World War One'. \n Encourage pupils to work on a suitable scale when constructing their models. For example, HMS Dreadnought was 160m long. If a model of the Dreadnought is 16cm long, how many metres of warship does each centimetre of model represent?\n Pupils could go on to look for images of modern warships. The most powerful ships today are aircraft carriers and nuclear submarines. How different are these vessels from the ships Jack served on? Do children think a sailor's life has changed much since World War One?\n Today's warships keep in touch using satellite technology. But this wasn't available to ships like Jack's during World War One. Instead, they used 'wireless' (radio signals) to send Morse Code messages. The technology was new and not always reliable. Sometimes, ships had to resort to simpler methods: they hoisted signal flags to let the other ships in their fleet know what they intended to do, or used lamps to flash messages.\n Pupils could find out more, from books and websites, about the signal flags flown by the navy in the war years and the signal lights used.\n Children could experiment with batteries, buzzers, wires and paper clips to design a simple switch that can be used to tap out a Morse Code message. They could try signalling the same message with a torch.\n Before RADAR and satellite surveillance technology, warships had to rely on lookouts to spot enemy vessels. In Jack's day, binoculars were the best technology available. But how far can you see with a pair of binoculars?\n Pupils could try using binoculars to look at distant objects. What is the most distant object they can pick out of the landscape? After spotting a landmark, pupils could use a map of the area to identify it and to measure how far away it is. From their findings, how far do they think a lookout could see in the navy during World War One? How would visibility be affected at sea by the weather?\n Ask the children to put pins into a wall map of Britain and the North Sea to show significant places in Walter's life: there are many places mentioned on the BBC Schools webpage about Jack. The children could stick labels next to each pin with the place name and the date Jack was there.\n Using a single thread, members of the class could trace Jack's journey through life from one place to another, winding the thread around each pin in the map, until the final complicated route is revealed.\n Useful links\n BBC Schools: 'Turn Back Time' resource pack\n In the years before the war, Jack's father Eli worked as a milkman. Before refrigerators, a daily milk delivery to your doorstep was common. Explain that the delivery came on a horse-drawn wagon. The driver had collected the milk, fresh that morning, from a local farm. There wasn't time to put the milk into small bottles or containers, so it was held in one big container, called a churn.\n When he arrived at your doorstep, the milkman would use a ladle to measure out the milk you wanted from the churn. He'd tip your milk into whatever bowl or pot you handed over and charge you for how much milk you'd had.\n Pupils could take turns to play the roles of milkman and householder. They could use a ladle to measure water from a large bucket into smaller pots and pans. They could go on to measure how much liquid the ladle holds and convert the amount from metric units to imperial. How many ladlefuls equal one pint? Can pupils discover, from books or websites, the price of a pint of milk back in the early 1900s?\n Ask children to imagine how they might have felt in 1914 when World War One began. What images would they have seen (posters, photos, cinema newsreels)? Would they have been excited? Scared? \n Before the war, Jack had been a keen Scout. What do children know about Scouts and Guides? Why do they think the Scouts had become so popular so quickly just before World War One? The children could go on to read more about the Cornwell Award, on the Scouts' website.\n Remind children that the school-leaving age then was 14. Why do they think it is higher now? Why do they think many boys who nowadays would still be in school or college were in the army or navy? Why did Jack want to be a sailor, at his age? Would he have been influenced by the wages he could earn? Do pupils think it is appropriate for children as young as Jack to serve in the armed forces?\n Jack was awarded the Victoria Cross, although he received it posthumously. Pupils could search online for the names of other recipients of the medal. Challenge pupils to compile a list of all those who received a Victoria Cross in the one hundred years since the World War One broke out. \n Encourage the children to find dates of birth for these individuals, from books and online sources. Can pupils work out how old each recipient was when the medal was awarded? The children could record their findings in a spreadsheet and use the information to generate a graph showing the ages of all the recipients.\n What was the average age at which a Victoria Cross was awarded? Are today's medal-winners significantly older or younger than those of one hundred years ago?\n What might Jack have thought about his life and his war? Children could write a letter home in Jack's words. He could be going to sea, in his new ship, HMS Chester. What is he excited about? What might he tell his mother in a letter home? Is he scared? Is he proud? Is he hopeful?\n The class could discuss the word 'patriotism'. Do they think people in 1916 would have thought Jack was patriotic? How do they think people regard Jack today?\n Useful links\n You could brief pairs of children to find out more about the lives of Jack Cornwell and other significant figures of the war years, using information from the 'My Life' site, as well as BBC Primary History's Famous People content.\n Hold a class debate, to decide the question: 'Who was the most historically significant figure of World War One One?' Encourage pupils to put forward a case for the historical figure they have researched. The speakers will also need to explain what they consider 'historic significance' to be. Encourage the listeners to ask questions of the speakers that compare the competing claims of the different historical figures.","feed":null,"feeds":null,"favicon":"http://www.bbc.co.uk/favicon.ico","description":"Teachers' notes and classroom ideas to accompany the 'Jack Cornwell' resources.","datetime":"2011-10-07 12:00:00 +0100"}
